---READTHISBOOKLAST GETTING STARTED Now that you have played through the introductory BEGINNER CAME adventure, there is no need to stop there. The galaxy is yours to explore and this book is filled with all the rules you will need to carry on with your adventures. All of the rules introduced and taught in the adventure can also be found here for ease of play, and many of the concepts have been expanded with further detail. WHAT'S IN THE BOOK? ¥ Chapter I: Playing the Came (page2). Rules for build.ing and interpreting dice pools, performing checks, using Destiny Points, and investing experience points to enhance the AGE OF REBELLION BEGINNER CAME characters. ¥ Chapter II: Combat (page 12). Rules for handling com.bat, movement, and characters' health. ¥ Chapter Ill: Skills (page21). Descriptions and common uses of each of the various skills that a character might learn in the course of his or her adventures in the Star Wars galaxy. ¥ Chapter IV: Talents (page26). Special abilities and tech.niques available to the characters in the Ace oF REBELLION BEGINNER CAME. ¥ Chapter V: Gear and Equipment (page30). Common personal weapons. armor, and gear critical for surviving the harsh battlefields of the Galactic Civil War. ¥ Chapter VI: Starships and Vehicles (page37). Special rules associated with starships and other vehicles common to the Star Wars universe. ¥ Chapter VII: Adversaries (page 44). Several additional opponents with which the heroes can contend. . ,-á ... ( . ." 'GAME RULES ' .¥. . . . ' .. . ... ,.' .. Many of the rules presented here will be familiar now that you have played through the tutorial adventure, although this section provides greater depth. WHAT PLAYERS NEED TO PLAY Continuing with your AcE OF REBELLION BEGINNER CAME requires very few materials. Besides at least one copy of this rulebook, play.ers will need pencils or pens. as well as the character folios and custom dice they used in the BEGINNER CAME adventure. The players and GM might also find it helpful to obtain the Star Wars dice-rolling application. More information can be found on the Fantasy Flight Games website at www.FantasyFlightGames.com. NARRATIVE PLAY The AcE OF REBELLION BEGINNER CAME asks the players to step into their characters' roles and use dramatic narrative to describe events and advance the story. While this rulebook provides specific rules for how to resolve actions. the game relies heavily on both the Game Master and the players to use their imaginations-tempered with common sense-to explain what happens. In the AcE OF REBELLION BEGINNER CAME, combat. placement of characters, and other situations are represented in an abstract fashion. Rather than taking a ruler and measuring the distance between characters on a map, it is preferable for a player to sim.ply state: "I'm ducking behind the computer console to get some cover while I return fire." That sort of description paints a much better picture of the action taking place. FantasyFlight GamesFANTASY1995 West County Road B2 FLIGHT Roseville, MN 5 5 113 GAMES USA © 2014 Lucasfilm Ltd. &¨ or TM where indicated. Used under authorization. All rights reserved. No part of this product may be reproduced without specific permission. Fantasy Flight Games and the FFG logo are registered trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Retain this information for your records. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. ISBN: 978-1-61661-878-0 Product Code: SWAO 1 Print ID: 2050MAR 1 4 For more information about the Star Wars: AcE oF REBELLION line. free downloads, answers to rule queries, or just to pass on greetings, visit us online at www.FantasyFlightGames.com starwars.com BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBER I ION THE CORE MECHANIC The core mechanic of the game revolves around the skill check. The skill check determines whether specific actions performed by characters succeed or fail, as well as any consequences that might accompany success or failure. This core mechanic in the AGE oF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME is quite simple and can be broken into two key elements: 1. Roll a pool of dice. 2. After accounting for all other factors. if there is at least one Success rf symbol showing on the dice, the task is completed successfully. The first element involves rolling a pool of dice. When a character wishes to attempt an action. a dice pool must be assembled. The number and type of dice are influenced by several factors, including the character's innate abilities. skill training, and equipment, as well as by the inherent difficulty of the Lask being attempted. The GM might decide that the environment or the situation warrants certain additional dice. Once all the necessary dice have been assembled. the player attempting the task rolls all of the dice in the pool. The second element involves interpreting the results on the dice. The players look at the symbols on the face-up sides of the dice. Certain symbols work in pairs. one type canceling out another. Other symbols cannot be canceled out; their effects are applied regardless of the outcome of the roll. After comparing the first set of paired symbols.Successrf and Failure Y -the players can determine if the task succeeds. Then they compare the second set of sym.bols-Advantage tJ, and Threat {¤}-to determine if there are any beneficial side effects or negative consequences. Finally, any other symbols are resolved to add the last details to the outcome. This core mechanic forms the foundation of the game. Other rules and effects either modify or interact with one of these two fundamental elements: the pool of dice being assembled or the results on the dice after they are rolled. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK AGE OF REBE¥ I ~ THE DICE When a character makes a skill check in the AGE oF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME, the dice allow the players to quickly determine the success or failure, as well as the mag.nitude and narrative implications, of the attempted task. To accomplish this. the AGE oF REBEu10N BEGINNER GAME uses sevendifferent types of dice. Each die face is either blank or features one or more symbols that represent various posi.tive or negative effects. POSITIVE DICE There are three types of positive dice that have symbols that improve the odds of successfully completing a task or achieving beneficial side effects. ABILITY DICE . Ability is represented with green eight-sided dice. Ability dice . represent the character's aptitude or skill when at.tempting a skill check. BOOST DICE . Special advantages, or "boosts," are represented with light blue six-sided dice. Boost dice D represent benefits gained through luck, chance, and advantageous actions taken by the characters. PROFICIENCY DICE 0 Proficiency is represented with yellow twelve-sided dice. Proficiency dice O represent the combination of innate abil.ity and training. They are most often used when characters attempt skill checks for which they have training in a relevant skill. Proficiency dice Oare the upgraded version of Ability dice . (for more on upgrades, see page 7). NEGATIVE DICE There are three types of negative dice that have symbols that undermine success or impose unwanted complications. DIFFICULTY DICE . Difficulty is represented with purple eight-sided dice. Diffi.culty dice . represent the inherent challenge or complex.ity of a particular task a character is attempting. In simplest terms, the more Difficulty dice . in a dice pool, the more challenging it is to succeed. ¥ 0 POSITIVEDICE AND NE6ATIVE DICE E ach dice pool is made up of a number of dice from several different sources. Essentially, these dice pools are comprised of "positive" and "negative" dice. Positive dice are added to the pool to help accomplish a task or achieve beneficial side effects.Negative dice are added to the pool to hinder or disrupt a task, or to introduce the possibility of complicating side effects. TABLE1-1: POSITIVE DICEAND NEGATIVE Positive Dice Negative Dice Come From Come From The skill used to The difficulty of the task accomplish a task attempted An opponent's special The characteristic being abilities, skills. or applied characteristics An applicable talent or Opposing forces at work special ability Equipment or gear being Inclement weather or used by the character environmental effects The use of light side The use of dark side Destiny Points Destiny Points Tactical or situational Tactical or situational advantages disadvantages Other advantages, as Other disadvantages, as determined by the GM determined by the GM SETBACK DICE Certain complications, or "setbacks," are represented with black six-sided dice. Setback dice . represent problems or minor obstacles during task resolution. Setback dice . are not as potent as Difficulty dice .. CHALLENGE DICE. Challenge is represented with red twelve-sided dice. Chal.lenge dice ¥ represent the most extreme adversity and opposition. These dice might be featured in place of Diffi. culty dice . during particularly daunting challenges posed by trained, elite, or prepared opponents. Challenge dice¥ are the upgraded version of Difficulty dice . (for more on upgrades, see page 7). FORCE DICE The Force is abstracted using white twelve-sided dice. These Force dice O represent the power and pervasiveness of the Force. In the AGE oF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME, Force dice O are only used when the players generate their starting Des.tiny pool at the beginning of a session (see Destiny Points on page 10). BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACOE OF REBE¥ ¥ K>N DICE SYMBOLS & RESULTS The dice used in the AcE oF REBELLION GAMEBEGINNER feature a number of unique symbols used to determine success and failure, as well as additional context and consequences during task resolution. Understanding these symbols allows the players to more fully contribute to the story, generating memo.rable details and describing cinematic actions over the course of their adventures. This section defines the different symbols and describes how they can be used in play. POSITIVE RESULTS There are three positive symbols on the task resolution dice. SUCCESS~ Success'>tf-symbols are critical for determining whether a skill check succeeds or fails. One Success '>tf-symbol is canceled by one FailureY symbol. If there is at least one Success'>tf-symbol remaining in the pool after all cancella.tions. the skill check succeeds. Success'>tf-symbols also influence the magnitude of the outcome. For example, in combat, each Success '>tf-symbol is added to the damage inflicted to the target. Generating four net Successes '>tf-would inflict four additional damage. ADVANTAGE tJ, The Advantage t) symbol indicates an opportunity for a positive consequence or side effect. regardless of the task's successor failure. Some examples of these positive side effects could include slicing a computer in far less time than anticipat.ed. finding an opening during a firefight to duck back into cov.er, or recovering from strain during a stressful situation. One Advantaget) symbol is canceled by one Threat {¤>symbol. It is possible for a task to fail while generating a number of Advantage tJ, symbols, which allows something good to come out of the failure. The applications of Advantage t) are covered in more detail on page 8. TRIUMPH@ The Triumph @ symbol is a powerful result, indicating a significant boon or beneficial outcome. Each Triumph @ symbol provides two effects: ¥ First, each Triumph @ symbol also counts as one Success'>tf-.in every way a Success'>tf-has been defined. ¥ Second, each Triumph @ can be used to trigger an incredibly potent effect. See page 8 for more infor.mation on using Triumph@ to trigger effects. Players gain both effects with each Triumph @ symbol; they do not have to choose between the Success '>tf-and the special effect trigger NEGATIVE RESULTS There are three negative symbols on the task resolution dice. FAILURE Y FailureY symbols are critical for determining whether a skill check succeeds or fails. One Failure Y symbol cancels one Success '>tf-symbol. If there are no Success '>tf-symbols remaining in the pool after all cancellations, the skill check fails. Multiple net Failure Y symbols have no further effect. The Threat {¤> symbol is fuel for negative consequences or side effects, regardless of the task's success or failure. Some examples of these negative side effects could include taking far longer than expected to slice a computer terminal, leaving an opening during a firefight that allows an enemy to duck into cover, or suffering additional strain during a stress.ful situation. One Threat {¤>symbol cancels one Advantage t) symbol. It is possible for a task to succeed but also generate Threat <¤>symbols that taint or diminish the impact of the success. The GM generally resolves Threat {¤>effects. The applications of Threat <¤>are covered in more detail on page 8. DESPAIR@ The Despair @ symbol is a powerful result, indicating a significant bane or detrimental outcome. Each Despair @ symbol imposes two effects: ¥ First, each Despair@ symbol also counts as one Failure Y. in every way a FailureY has been defined. ¥ Second. each Despair @ can be used to trigger a potent negative effect. See page 8 for more infor.mation on using Despair @ to trigger effects. Players suffer both effects with each Despair @ symbol; they do not get to choose between the Failure Y and the special effect trigger. The Failure Y aspect of a Despair @ can be canceled by a Success '>tf-symbol as normal, but the second aspect of the Despair@ result cannot be canceled. If it appears alongside a Triumph @ sym.bol, both take effect for the results of the check. ¥ LIGHTS, CAME ACTION! D uring the course of an ACE OF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME dice, and it varies from action to action based on the charac.adventure, characters And themselves attempting a vari.ters involved and the specinc situation. ety of tasks. When the outcome of a PC's task is uncertain, After the dice pool has been created, the player rolls all of that character usually needs to perform a skill check to deter.the dice assembled. The results on these dice are evaluated. mine the success or failure of a particular action. Some results cancel each other out, while others are cumu.. The type of skill check required is determined by the GM lative. Once all evaluations have been made, the player and (for more information on skill types. see page 21 ). Once GM can resolve the skill check by determining the action's the type of check and its difficulty have been set. the player success or failure. They use the information from the dice . creates a pool of dice based on the different factors involved results to describe the outcome of the check, as well as any in the task. The pool can be a combination of many types of additional effects, complications, or surprises. THEB IC DICE POOL T heAcE oF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME uses a concept known CHARACTERISTIC RATINGS as a dice pool, which is a collection of the custom dice needed for the game (see Building a Basic Dice Pool on Characteristic ratings for both PCs and NPCs generally range page 6). The basic dice pool relies on three factors: the from 1 to 6. PC's inherent ability, any specialized training, and the difn.A typical humanoid has an average characteristic rating of culty of the task being attempted. 2. A rating of 1 is weak and below average. A characteristic rating of 3 or 4 is signincantly above average, while ratings of 5 or 6 represent peak performance and ability. CHARACTERISTICS A character's intrinsic abilities are denned the following six SKILLS & TRAINING characteristics: Skills represent the character's training or experience in per.AGILITY forming specinc tasks and actions. Although a character can The Agility characteristic measures a character's manual attempt almost anything without the proper training or skill, dexterity, hand-eye coordination, and body control. a trained character will be far more effective and capable than one unskilled at the task at hand. BRAWN Each skill is linked to a specinc characteristic, the default A character's Brawn represents a blend of a character's ability a character uses when performing a task with thatbrute power, strength, and overall toughness, as well as the skill. For example, the Athletics skill is based on Brawn,ability to apply those attributes as needed. Deception relies on Cunning, and Knowledge uses Intellect. CUNNING For a more in-depth look at skills and their applications, Cunning reflects how crafty, devious, clever, and creative a see page 21. character can be. DIFFICULTYINTELLECT The Intellect characteristic measures a character's intel.Difnculty adds negative dice to the dice pool, which make ligence, education, mental acuity, memory, and ability to success more challenging. In addition to the task's inherent reason and rationalize. difnculty, other dice may be added to reflect additional com.plications based on the environment or specinc situation. PRESENCE While the characteristic and related skill training areA character's Presence characteristic is a measure of moxie, denned by the character attempting the task, the difnculty charisma, conndence, and force of personality. of a task is set by the GM. There are six difnculty levels (see Table 1-2: Difficulty Levels on page 7). WILLPOWER The Willpower characteristic reflects a character's discipline, self-control, mental fortitude, and faith. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK AGE OF REBELLION BUILDING AB IC DICE POOL now that the three primary building blocks of a skill check's dice pool have been discussed, the following section explains how the dice pool is actually assembled. APPLYING SKILLS & CHARACTERISTICS The active character's skill training and the skill's linked char.acteristic are equally important when building a dice pool. When a character performs a task, the GM and player deter.mine which skill is most appropriate. The skill they select de.termines which characteristic the character uses. For example, if the character is attempting to bypass a security terminal by slicing its alarm system. the skill check would use the Comput.ers skill which 1s linked to the Intellect characteristic. Once the characteristic and skill are determined, the play.er can start building the dice pool. The player compares any ranks of skill training and the linked characteristic's rating. The higher of the two values determines how many Ability dice . are added to the skill check's dice pool. Then the player upgrades a number of those Ability dice . into Profi.ciency dice O based on the lower of the two values. If a character is unskilled (possesses no ranks) in the necessary skill, that value is automatically zero, and the character relies solely on the appropriate characteristic. Example 1: Cael, a Rebel soldier, is attempting to climb a wall to get away from his pursuers. This uses Cael's Athletics skill and Brawn characteristic. Cael has Athletics 2 and Brawn 4. His Brawn is higher, so the player begins by adding four Ability dice .... to his pool. His Athletics skill is lower, so he upgrades that many dice (two) into Proficiency dice O. To attempt this action, Cael starts out with four dice in his pool... 00, two Ability dice and two Proficiency dice. Example 2: Later, Vendri, the Duros master of infil.tration, is attempting to climb the same wall. Vendri is more experienced with climbing and has Athletics 4. However, his Brawn is only 2. His Athletics skill is higher, so the player begins by adding four Ability dice .... to his pool. His Brawn rating is lower, so he upgrades that many dice (two) into Proficiency dice O 0. To attempt this action, Vendri starts out with four dice in his pool-+ . O 0, two Ability dice and two Proficiency dice. Note that both Cael and Vendri begin with the same size and type of dice pool, despite the fact their ranks in the Athletics skill and their Brawn characteristics are different. APPLYING TASK DIFFICULTY After determining which skill and related characteristic are required to attempt the task, the GM chooses the level of difficulty for the task by consulting Table 1-2: Difficulty Levels on page 7. The difficulty level of the task deter.mines the number of Difficulty dice . that the player must add to the pool. For example, an Average (. .) skill check means the player adds two Difficulty dice . to the dice pool. In some cases, the GM may upgrade one or more of these Difficulty dice .. removing them from the dice pool and re.placing them with an equal number of Challenge dice¥á Dif.ficulty dice . are most often upgraded into Challenge dice ¥ when characters face skilled opposition or particularly dire circumstances, or when Destiny Points are used to make a check more challenging. Upgrading Difficulty dice . into Challenge dice¥ is discussed in more detail on page 7. If there are no other factors influencing the outcome of the attempt, the basic dice pool is now complete and can be rolled to determine success or failure, as well as any poten.tial side effects. Example: For the previous sample scenarios, the GM reviews the table of difficulty levels. She decides that this wall is poorly maintained, and thus has cracks the PCs can grip, so she assigns a difficulty of Average (..) to the task. Two Difficulty dice are added to the players' dice pools when the PCs try to climb the wall. MODIFYING A DICE POOL If there are no other influences or contributing factors that can impact the outcome of a task, the basic dice pool might be sufficient to represent the check. However, in a setting as diverse and action-packed as Star Wars, it is common for other factors to be introduced. Any number of factors might warrant modification of the dice pool, such as obstructing terrain, poor lighting, tactical advantages. time constraints, superior equipment, special talents, investment of Destiny Points, or Critical Injuries. The following sections describe these modifications in more detail. It is also important to note that when modifying a dice pool, players perform the modifications in a specific order. First, players assemble the basic pool. Then they add ad.ditional dice. Then they upgrade dice. Then they downgrade dice. Finally, they remove dice. ADDING DICE One way to modify the basic dice pool is to add dice to reflect environmental conditions or various advantages and disadvantages. This is done primarily through the use of BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBELUON TABLE1-2: DIFFICULTY LEVELS A simple task 1s something so basic and routine that the outcome 1s rarely 1n doubt. Success 1s assumed for the majority of simple tasks. If failure is virtually impossible, the task should not evenrequire Simple a check-the GM may simply state that the proposed action succeeds. If circumstances make the outcome uncertain, then a simple task may require a roll This is generally the case only if one or more Setback. dice are introduced. such as those added due to injuries. the environment, or opposition ¥An easy task represents something that should pose little challenge to most characters, but Easy something could go wrong, and failure is still possible. Examples include picking a primitive lock, . tending to minor cuts and bruises. finding food on a lush planet. and shooting a target at short range. . An average task represents a routine action for which success is common enough to be expected. but failure is not surprising. Examples include picking a typical lock, stitching up a small wound, finding Average .. food and shelter on a temperate planet. shooting a target at medium range, and trying to strike a target with a melee attack while engaged. A hard task is much more demanding of a character. Success is certainly feasible, but failure is far Hard from surprising. Examples include picking a complicated lock. setting broken bones or suturing large wounds, finding food and shelter on a rugged planet, and shooting a target at long range. A daunting task taxes a character and may push him to his limits. Success may be difficult to achieve. but Daunting .... it is possible. Examples include picking an exceptionally sophisticated lock, performing surgery or grafting implants. finding food and shelter on a barren desert planet, and shooting a target at extreme range Formidable tasks seem nigh impossible. In fact. a formidable task most likely is impossible if approached casually. However, with proper planning, a well-trained and well-equipped character has Formidable ..... a chance at success.Examples include picking a lock with no comprehensible mechanism. cloning a new body, and finding food and shelter on a planet without a breathable atmosphere. Boost D and Setback . dice. As a general rule, one Boost UPGRADING DICE die D is added to the dice pool for each edge or tool that Upgrading dice is a mechanic specific to Ability dice . andwould help the character succeed, and one Setback die . is Difficulty dice .-When an Ability die . is upgraded, it isadded for each disadvantage or obstacle impeding success. converted into a Proficiency die 0. When a Difficulty die . A single Boost die Dis often enough to represent the ben.is upgraded, it is converted into a Challenge die¥á efits provided by useful gear. ample time. superior position, When a special talent or effect calls for one or more dice or the element of surprise. If more than one of these advan.to be upgraded, the player first determines how many dice tages are applicable, the GM may allow multiple Boost dice are to be upgraded. Once this has been determined, the D to be added to the dice pool. player removes that number of Ability dice . or Difficulty Likewise. a single Setback die . is usually enough to re.dice . from the pool and replaces them with an equal num.flect the impact of detrimental or obstructing effects like ber of either Proficiency dice O or Challenge dice¥á poor lighting, inferior supplies. harsh environments, or out.UPGRADING MORE DICE THAN AVAILABLEside distractions. If more than one of these disadvantages are applicable, the GM may add multiple Setback dice . to There might be situations in which a player needs to upgrade the dice pool. Ability dice . into Proficiency dice 0, but there are no more Ability dice . remaining in the pool. In this case, the player Example:In the wall-climbing scenario used prior, the performs the following steps. First, he determines how many scene could be described to reflect the character at.dice upgrades remain. Then, using one upgrade. he adds one tempting the task while under pursuit by stormtroop.additional Ability die . to the pool. If any upgrade opportu.ers (a disadvantage) and after a rainstorm that has nities remain, he then upgrades the newly added Ability die left the wall slick (a disadvantage). Fortunately, the . into a Proficiency die 0. This process is repeated until all character has climbed this wall before, and knows the potential upgrades have been applied. handholds and footholds (an advantage). Based on If a player needs to upgrade Difficulty dice . into Chal.how the scene has been set up and described, the lenge dice¥ but there are no more Difficulty dice . remain.GM adds two Setback . dice and one Boost die D (in ing, the same process is followed. total, .. D) to the pool. DOWNGRADING DICE Downgrading dice is also a specific mechanic, and applies UPGRADING AND DOWNGRADING DICE only to Proficiency dice O and Challenge dice¥á When a In addition to dice being added to the pool, some game Proficiency die O is downgraded, it becomes an Ability die effects, such as Destiny Points, upgrade a weaker die into a .. When a Challenge die ¥ is downgraded, it becomes a more potent die, or downgrade a potent die into a weaker die. Difficulty die ..BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK AGE OF REBE¥ 1K>N When a special talent or effect calls for one or more dice to be downgraded, the player first determines how many dice are to be downgraded. Once this has been determined, the player removes that number of Proficiency dice O or Challenge dice¥ from the pool and replaces them with an equal number of either Ability dice . or Difficulty dice ..DOWNGRADING MORE DICE THAN AVAILABLE There might be situations in which a player needs to down.grade Proficiency dice O into Ability dice . or Challenge dice ¥ into Difficulty dice .-If all the potential dice are already in their downgraded form, ignore any further downgrades. UPGRADES & DOWNGRADES IN THE SAME POOL Sometimes abilities will call for both dice upgrades and down.grades. When this occurs, all upgrades are applied first. Then, any downgrades are applied. This is important, since upgrad.ing dice could potentially add more dice to the overall pool. REMOVING DICE Just as some effects add Boost dice Dor Setbackdice . to a pool, other effects remove dice from the pool before they are rolled. Most often this comes from character talents that allow the removal of Setback dice . from a pool. If an ability would remove more dice of a type than there are in the dice pool, the maximum number of dice available are removed, and any additional removals are ignored. Removing dice is done after all other dice have been add.ed and all upgrades and downgrades have been applied. INTERPRETING THE POOL A fter a dice pool is rolled, the players evaluate the results to resolve the outcome. The first outcome to resolve is the success or failure of the skill check. Then, the GM and players can determine if any significant side effects-good, bad, or both-are triggered. SUCCESSES & FAILURES Each Failure Y symbol cancels one Success* symbol. Remember that Triumph @ symbols are counted as Success *symbols in addition to their Triumph @ effects, and the Success* portion of their effects can be canceled by a Fail.ure Y symbol. Likewise, Despair@ symbols count as Failure Y symbols in addition to their Despair@ effects, thus cancel Success* symbols just like regular Failure Y symbols do. If all Successes* and Failures Y in the pool are canceled out, or if there are any net Failures'f' remaining, the skill check fails. If at least one Success* remains, the skill check succeeds. Remember, a dice pool must have at least one Success*symbol remaining for a skill check to succeed. ADVANTAGES & THREATS Advantageti symbols and Threat <¤} symbols cancel one another. Each Threat <¤} symbol cancels one Advantage ti symbol. After all Threat <¤} symbols have canceled Advan.tageti symbols, a pool will have one or more Advantage ti symbols, one or more Threat<¤} symbols, or have everything evenly canceled out. Having one or more net Advantage ti symbols indicates a positive side effect or benefit. Having one or more net Threat <¤} symbols indicates a negative side effect or complication of the attempted task. If all the Advantage ti symbols and Threat <¤} symbols cancel each other out, then there are no additional effects, positive or negative. TRIUMPH & DESPAIR Two symbols represent far more potent effects than the oth.ers. Triumph@ and Despair@ are special cases and operate somewhat differently than the other symbols. Unlike Success *and Failure Y or Advantageti and Threat<¤}, Triumph @ and Despair @ do not completely cancel each other out. Rather, they indicate an especially positive or unfortunately dire side effect. Only the "Success" and the "Failure" por.tions of each symbol can cancel each other out. Remember that it 1s possible for a skill check to result in both Triumph @ and Despair @ symbols. In this case, each result is interpreted separately. For more information about the specific applications of Triumph @ and Despair @. see pages1 5-16. UNLIMITED POSSIBILITIES With the opportunity for success or failure, as well as the myriad side effects possible through varying amounts of Advantageti. Threat <¤}, Triumph @, and Despair @. no two skill checks are the same. There are hundreds of pos.sible outcomes with almost every skill check. A character might achieve a high-magnitude success with no other com.plications, or a low-magnitude success with Advantage ti. or a moderate success with Advantage ti symbols that are tempered by Despair @. Likewise, failed checks can have silver linings by also featuring Advantage ti or Triumph@, or create truly dire situations when they are accompanied by Threat<¤} and Despair@. The sheer variety of possibilities provides opportunities to narrate truly memorable action sequences and scenes. Play.ers and GMs alike are encouraged to take these opportuni.ties to think about how the symbols can help move the story along and add details and special effects that create unique, action-packed sessions. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBELLION OTHER PES OF CHECKS T he standard skill check using a basic dice pool can be used to resolve Lhe vast majority of tasks in a game session. However,some situations call for a slightly different approach. OPPOSED CHECKS Sometimes a task is more difficult to accomplish because someone is actively trying to prevent the character from suc.ceeding. Similarly, a task may be influenced when one char.acter is trying to overcome or bypass another character. For example, let's say a suspected infiltrator lies to the Moff he is betraying, claiming he had nothing to do with the intel leaks. The infiltrator's Deception check might be opposed by the Moffs Discipline. When a spy tries to sneak past a guard. the spy's Stealth check is opposed by the sentry's Vigilance skill. Like standard checks, opposed checks have associated Dif.ficulty . and potentially Challenge dice¥ that are added to the skill check's dice pool. However, rather than assigning a general difficulty level to an opposed check, a comparison be.tween the active and opposing characters' characteristics and skill ratings determines the difficulty of an opposed check. The active character's dice pool is built using Ability dice and potentially upgrading some into Proficiency dice O based on characteristic and skill rating, as normal. The opposition then introduces Difficulty dice . and Challenge dice¥ based on its relevant characteristic and skill rating. The higher of the opposition's characteristic and skill rating values determines how many Difficulty dice . are added to the pool, while the lower value indicates how many of those dice are upgraded into Challenge dice¥ (seeUpgrading Dice on page 7). Example: Zal the pilot is flying her X-wing, trying to make a TIE fighter lose sight of her by passing through a debris field. Zal has Agility 4 and Piloting 2, which creates an initial dice pool of four Ability dice, two of which are upgraded to Proficiency dice (. . 0 0 in total). The TIE fighter pilot has Cunning 2 and Percep.tion 1 . Therefore, the opposition adds two Difficulty dice to the check, one of which is subsequently up.graded to a Challenge die (. ¥ in total). If there are no other factors, the skill check dice pool contains the following dice: ..OO. e. COMPETITIVE CHECKS When multiple characters are attempting the same task and the players need to know which character accomplishes the task first or performs the task best, or need to measure some other outcome, they are engaging in a competitive check. For example, two characters engage in a friendly footrace through a dense jungle. Each character has the same goalá to win the race by crossing the finish line first. This is a competi.tive check to see who outperforms the other. For a competitive check, the GM assigns a difficulty level for the task, and each character involved in the competition makes a skill check based on that difficulty. When characters make a competitive check, it is important to track how many net Successes~ each character generates after cancellations. The character with the most net Successes~ "wins" the check. Although Advantage ti and Triumph @ symbols still provide their customary effects in these situations, they also provide one additional benefit: the resolution of ties. If the two characters tie by generating the same number of net Successes ~, the character with the greater number of Triumph@ symbols is the winner. If the characters are still tied, the character with more total Advantages ti wins the check. If the characters are still tied after evaluating these cate.gories, the competitive check is a draw. In this case, the GM must determine the winner, or the consequences if everyone loses, or call for another competitive check. Example: Tendaar the Mon Calamari engineer and Zal the pilot engage in a friendly game of darts while relaxing at the base. The GM decides that hitting the target (an Imperial propaganda poster display.ing Mott Dardano's face) will require an Average (. .) Ranged {Light) check. Tendaar has Agility 2 and Ranged (Light) 2, while Zal has Agility 4 and Ranged (Light) 1 . Tendaar manages to generate two Successes, no Triumph, and two Advantage Ftf~titi in total). Despite her superior Agility, Zal only man.ages to generate one Success, one Triumph (which, in addition to being a Triumph, also counts as Zal's second Success), and three Threat r~@ {¤} {¤} {¤}) Zal wins the competitive check based on the tiebreaker. . DESTI POINTS D estiny is that special spark that elevates heroes above the rank and file, imbuing a persona with enough signifi.cance in the galaxy's events to be a Player Character. Over the course of the PCs' adventures, Destiny can intervene on their behalf for good or ill. The concept of Destiny and the Player Charactersá ability to tap into and influence this resource is represented by Des.tiny Points. Destiny is interwoven with the Force and is one way the Force guides and surrounds the characters. THE POOL OF DESTINY Like the Force, Destiny has both a light side and a dark side. Light side Destiny Points favor the Player Characters and can be used to aid them in their actions. Dark side Destiny Points impede the PCs and are used by the GM to imperil the PCs and complicate their actions. As the pool of light side Destiny ebbs, the dark side's Destiny pool grows. As dark side Destiny Points are consumed, light side Destiny Points are replenished. PREPARING THE DESTINY POOL To determine the current Destiny pool, at the beginning of each game session, each hero player rolls one ForceO die (the GM does not roll a Force die). The results of the Force dice are tallied to become the starting Destiny pool for that session. For example, if a player rolls one light side symbol Q, add one light side Destiny Point to the session's Destiny pool. If a player rolls two dark side symbols ¥ ¥á add two dark side Destiny Points to the Destiny pool. Once set, the size of the Destiny pool does not change for the remainder of that game session. At the start of the next session, each player rolls again, and thus the group makes a new pool, which might well have a differ.ent number of Destiny Points. TRACKING DESTINY POINTS Destiny Points can be easily tracked using the included two.sided gaming tokens. The white side represents light side Destiny Points, and the black side is designated to represent dark side Destiny Points. When anyone spends a Destiny Point, simply flip a token over to its other side. HOW DESTINY POINTS ARE USED Player Characters may only spend light side Destiny Points, and the GM may only spend dark side Destiny Points. When a player spends a light side Destiny Point. it is con.verted into a dark side Destiny Point after the current action is resolved. When the GM spends a dark side Destiny Point, it is then converted into a light side Destiny Point in the same fashion. A player can only spend one light side Destiny Point during a single action. The GM likewise is limited to spending one dark side point per action. The active player (the player or GM forming the dice pool) always has the first chance to use a Destiny Point. Once this player has decided whether or not to use a Destiny Point. the other party involved in the check (the targeted player, or the GM in the case of an NPC) has the opportunity to respond by using a Destiny Point in turn. The following section explains some of the ways in which Destiny Points can be used. A HELPING HAND Players have the opportunity to call on Destiny to enhance skill checks they are about to attempt. A hero player may spend one light side Destiny Point to upgrade a dice pool by one step. This refers to upgrading a single Ability die . into the superior Proficiency die 0. The GM may spend a dark side Destiny Point in this way to upgrade an NPC's dice pool. Additional information on upgrading dice can be found on page 7. RAISING THE STAKES Destiny can also be used to help keep characters out of harm's way. Players can call on Destiny to make an oppo.nent's skill check more challenging. A hero player may spend one light side Destiny Point to upgrade the difficulty in any NPC's skill check by one step. This refers to upgrading a single Difficulty die . into the more potent Challenge die¥á The GM may spend a dark side Destiny Point in this way to upgrade one of the PC's dice pools. Additional information on upgrading dice can be found on page 7. SPECIAL ABILITIES AND TALENTS Some powerful talents allow characters to spend Destiny Points for various effects. For example, after acquiring the Dead to Rights talent, Zal can spend one light side Des.tiny Point to add damage equal to half of her Agility to a successful combat check. Other uses exist, as well-see the full talent descriptions beginning on page 27 for details. ¥ INVESTING EXPERIENCE POINTS E xperience is the primary means by which players custom.ize their characters. Players should receive experience from the GM as they continue to play with the characters in the AcE OF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME, and they can spend that experi.ence to improve their characters. SKILL TRAINING Each skill has five ranks of training available. The cost for training skills falls into one of two categories: career skills and non-career skills. Each character should have check marks next to a number of skills (based on career]. These are the character's career skills. Training a career skill costs five times the value of the next highest rank. For example. training a career skill from rank 0 (untrained) to rank 1 requires 5 experience points. Improving a rank 1 career skill to rank 2 requires 10 experience points. Each rank must be purchased separately. This means that training a career skill from rank O to rank 2 costs 15 experi.ence points (5 for raising it from rank O to rank 1 , then 10 more for raising it from rank 1 to rank 2]. A character can also purchase ranks of non-career skills. Each rank of a non-career skill costs 5 additional experience points. For example. training a non-career skill from rank 0 (untrained) to rank 1 requires 10 experience points. Improv.ing a rank 1 non-career skill to rank 2 requires 15 experience TABLE1-3: INVESTING EXPERIENCE Option May purchase ranks 1n any skill, up to rank 5 May spend experience to purchase talents in talent trees. ' Cost Career skills cost five Limes the points. Each rank must be purchased separately. This means that training a non-career skill from rank O to rank 2 costs 25 experience points ( 10 for raising it from rank O to rank 1 . then 1 5 more for raising it from rank 1 to rank 2]. ACQUIRING TALENTS Talents in the AcE oF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME are acquired from a character's career talent tree. Talent trees provide a unique format for purchasing talents that comes with several special rules and restrictions. Each talent tree has four columns and three rows. This means each talent tree has a total of twelve talents that char.acters may purchase. The cost of each talent depends on the row it occupies. The talents in the topmost row are the least expensive, costing 5 experience points each. The next row's choices cost 10 experience points each. and the third and final row's choices cost 15 experience each. Note that the choices on each tree are connected by a series of lines that link some talent choices with others. When purchasing talents, characters can only purchase tal.ents they are eligible for. Characters are eligible to select any talents in the first, topmost row. plus any talents that are connected via one of the aforementioned links to a talent the character has already acquired. Each entry on the talent tree may only be acquired once. Prerequisites Whether for a career skill or a non-career skill. purchased rating 1n experience. each rank must be purchased sequentially (rank 2 must be purchased before rank 3. and so on) Non-career skills cost five times the purchased rating in experience. plus five additional experience. Each talent lists its cost Talentscan only be purchased if they are on the first level of a talent tree or if they are connected with a bar to one or more talents already purchased. -T he AcE OF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME strives to capture the pure cinematic thrill found in the Star Wars universe. Combat is frequent, fast-moving, and meant to showcase the talents and abilities of the Player Characters. Most of the gameplay is done on a narrative basis, with the GM describing events and the players describing their characters' actions and reactions to these events. Combat, however, requires more structured gameplay. STRUCTURED GAMEPLAY OVERVIEW In structured gameplay, the game is broken down into a series of rounds, each of which is further broken down into a series of turns. During a single round, each Player Character and Non-Player Character gets one turn, during which they have the opportunity to accomplish tasks and perform vari.ous actions. Players should keep in mind that a round lasts long enough for their character to move to a new location and perform an im.portant action. They should also remember that although each round is broken up into turns that happen sequentially in game.play, narratively the turns are occurring at roughly the same time. Structured gameplay events (also known as encounters) such as combat follow these steps. STEP 1: DETERMINE INITIATIVE At the beginning of the first round of combat, the hero players and the GM need to determine in what order the characters will take their turns. This is referred to as the Initiative order. To determine the Initiative order. each Player Character and NPC makes a Simple (-) Cool or Vigilance check.Cool when aware and ready for combat, Vigilance when combat begins unexpectedly. It is important to note that different characters might use different skills to determine Initiative during the same combat, depending on their differ.ing circumstances. Once all Initiative checks have been made, the GM notes the results of each check and ranks them in order, from high.est number of Successes "ffto lowest number of Successes >tf.If two checks are tied, the check with more Advantage t> is ranked higher. If they are still tied. the check with more Triumph @ is ranked higher. If a Player Character and an NPC are still tied after all of these factors have been taken into account. the Player Character is ranked higher. This is the Initiative order. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBELUON STEP 2: ASSIGN INITIATIVE SLOTS Once the GM has determined the Initiative order, he or she notes which results were generated by Player Characters, and which results were generated by NPCs. The results generated by Player Characters become Player Character Initiative slots. The results generated by NPCs become NPC Initiative slots. STEP 3: PARTICIPANTS TAKE TURNS Beginning at the top of the Initiative order, the hero players and GM fill each Initiative slot one at a time with a character turn. If the Initiative slot is a Player Character Initiative slot, then the players agree on one Player Character to fill the slot from among the Player Characters who have not acted that round. That Player Character then takes this turn. If the Initiative slot is an NPC Initiative slot. then the GM chooses one NPC to fill the slot from among the NPCs who have not acted that turn. That NPC then takes this turn. THETURN ¥ E ach character (whether a Player Character or a Non-Player Character) gets one turn to act during each round. During this turn, the character has the chance to undertake certain activities, such as moving from place to place, using skills, or even attacking others. The activities the active character can perform during a turn are split into three categories: Inciden.tals, Maneuvers, and Actions. INCIDENTALS Incidentals are minor activities that characters can undertake that require extremely little time or effort. There is no hard limit to the number of incidentals a character can perform dur.ing a single turn, although the GM may veto excessive numbers of them or decide they are complex enough to warrant count.ing as a maneuver. The following are examples of incidentals: ¥ Speaking to another character. ¥ Dropping an item held in one's hands. ¥ Releasing someone the character is holding. ¥ Making slight movements such as shifting position, peeking around a corner. or looking behind a person. MANEUVERS Not all undertakings require a check. These minor activities are known as maneuvers and cover a wide range of activities that any character can perform. They require an investment of time and effort on the character's part. but are simple enough that there is no chance of failure when doing them. Techni.cally, characters perform maneuvers during narrative game.play as well as encounters. However, maneuvers are tracked and defined during encounters because characters are more limited in their time and efforts by the frantic pace of conflict. STEP 4: ROUND ENDS Once all NPCs and Player Characters have taken a turn, the round ends. At this point, certain effects that last until the "end of the round" end. The GM also determines if the ongoing event warrants additional rounds, or if it has been resolved. If the ongoing event continues. repeat step 3 using the same Initiative order generated in step 1. If the action has been resolved and the encounter is over. proceed to step 5. . STEPS:ENCOUNTERENDS . Once the focal event of the encounter has been resolved. the GM ends the encounter. At this point. any character abilities that can only be used "once per encounter" reset. Each Player Character also has a chance to breath easy and recover strain, and each PC may take steps to help heal any incapacitated characters. MANEUVER LIMITATIONS A character can perform one free maneuver on his turn. The character may also perform a second maneuver by volun.tarily suffering two points of strain. A single character cannot perform more than two maneuvers during his turn. TYPES OF MANEUVERS The following is a list of the most common maneuvers a char.acter can perform during combat. AIM During combat, a character can use the Aim maneuver to steady a weapon or line up a hit before attacking. This grants one Boost die D to the character's next combat check ASSIST A character can perform the Assist maneuver to add a bonus Boost die D to an engaged ally's next check. Several characters can use the assist maneuver to add more bonus Boost dice D to the engaged ally's next check. The Game Master should use common sense when allowing characters to assist one another. Some actions simply do not benefit from assistance. GUARDED STANCE A character can take a Guarded Stance maneuver to protect against melee attacks. Until the end of the character's next turn, any combat checks the character makes suffer one Set.backdie .. and Melee and Brawl checks made targeting the character suffer one Setback die .. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK AGE OF REBE¥ ¥ Inti! RAN6EDATTACKSAND MELEEATTACKS Ranged attacks and melee attacks are two differ.ent types of attacks. meaning they are also two different types of combat checks. A ranged attack is an attack made with a ranged weapon of some sort, most likely an attack made using the Ranged (Light). Ranged (Heavy), or Gunnery skill. A melee attack is an attack made in close combat against an opponent with a weapon designed for use in close combat. Most often. a melee attack is made using the Melee or Brawl skill. INTERACT WITH THE ENVIRONMENT This is a broad category of possible interactions, such as opening a blast door. flipping or ducking behind a table. pressing a specific button on a control panel, or grabbing a blaster off of the ground. Taking cover: Ducking behind a door jam. crouching be.hind a crate, or peeking around a tree trunk: all of these maneuvers allow a character to add a Setback die . to any ranged combat checks that target that character. MANAGE GEAR This maneuver allows a character to manage items and equipment (such as drawing or loading a weapon or drawing something from a pouch or satchel). MOVE The Move maneuver allows a character to move within the surrounding environment. ¥ Change range increment. Performing this maneuver allows a character to move between short and medium range relative to another person or object. This also means that a character can move between medium and long range by performing two maneuvers. or between long and extreme range by performing two maneuvers. When covering long distances, multiple maneuvers do not have to be performed on the same turn, but the character is not considered to be in the new range incre.ment until all required maneuvers have been performed. For more detail on determining range, see page 16. ¥ Engage or Disengage from an opponent. If a target is already within short range of a character. the char.acter can perform a maneuver to engage that target; if already engaged with a target, a character can perform a maneuver to disengage from that target. ¥ Move within short range. Performing this maneuver allows an unengaged character to move to another position that is currently within short range. DROP PRONE OR STAND FROM PRONE Dropping prone and standing from a prone position both require a maneuver. Dropping prone adds one Setback die . to all ranged attacks made against the prone character but also adds one Boost die D to all melee attacks made against the prone character. ACTIONS During a character's turn, the character generally has the chance to perform one primary activity. This is the character's action. A character can only perform one action in a turn. In the AGE oF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME, there are four major types of actions a character can perform during a turn. EXCHANGING AN ACTION FOR A MANEUVER A character may exchange an action for an additional maneuver during the turn However, a character still cannot perform more than two maneuvers during a single turn. SPENDING AN ACTION TO ACTIVATE AN ABILITY Certain abilities and talents can require an action to activate. When a character spends an action to activate an ability, the character has used the action for that turn. PERFORMING A SKILL CHECK The most common actions most characters take during their turn are actions that require a skill check to resolve. In other words. these are activities for which success is not guaranteed or for which the failure of the task may be important to the ongoing story. Skill descriptions are covered on page 21 . Combat checks. however. are unique enough that they re.quire a separate description. PERFORMING A COMBAT CHECK A player makes a combat check when that player's PC uses a combat skill to attack a target. This is also referred to as an attack. A combat check follows all the rules and procedures for making a skill check, including the steps for assembling the dice pool (see page 6). However. there are several additional steps included in a combat check: 1. DECLARE AN ATTACK AND SELECT TARGETS The player chooses to have the character make an attack. The player selects the skill the character uses to make the attack. and if the skill requires a weapon to use. which weapon the character uses, The player then declares the attack's target. 2. ASSEMBLE THE DICE POOL The player then assembles a dice pool based on the skill, its characteristic, and any applicable talents and other abilities. The difficulty of combat checks depends on whether the attack is a ranged attack (using Ranged [Light]. Ranged [Heavy]. or Gunnery) or a melee attack (using Melee or Brawn). Me lee attack difficulties are always Average (. .) difficulty. Ranged attack difficulties depend on the distance the target is from the active character. or in other words. the range band the target occupies. Table 2-3: Ranged Attack Difficulty on page 17 lists difficulties as they relate to different range bands. See page 16 for more information about range bands. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBELLION TABLE2-1: SPENDING tJ, AND TRIUMPH@ IN COMBAT ADVANTAGE Cost -: Result Options 1 Triumph @ or Activate a Critical lnju1y (if the target suffers at least 1 wound) or active weapon quallty based on (variable) Advantage t> weapon (see page 33). Recover I strain (this option may be selected more than once). 1 Advantaget> or Add one Boost die D to the next allied active character's check. 1 Triumph@ Notice a single important point in the ongoing conflict, such as the location of a blast door's control .panel or a weak point on an attack speeder. Perform an immediate free maneuver. provided that the character has not already performed two maneuvers ,n that turn . 2 Advantage t>t> or 1 Triumph@ Add one Setback die . to the targeted character's next check. Add one Boost die D to another allied character's next check (or that of the current active character) Upgrade the difficulty of the targeted character's next check. Upgrade another allied character's next check (or that of the current active character). 1 Triumph@ Do something vital to turning the tide of battle. such as shooting the controls to the nearby blast doors to seal them shut. When dealing damage to a target, have the attack destroy a piece of equipment the target 1s using, 2 Tnumph@@ such as blowing up a blaster or destroying a personal shield generator. 3. POOL RESULTS AND DEALING DAMAGE 5. RESOLVE THREAT<¤~ AND DESPAIR @ The player rolls the dice pool for the character and evaluates In the same fashion that the controlling player determines the results (Interpreting the Pool on page 8). As with how a character spends Advantage t> and Triumph @ in a any skill check, the check must generate more Successes ~ combat check. the GM then determines how to spend any than Failures Y to be successful. Threat<¤} and Despair@ generated in the check. By default. the GM determines how Threat<¤} and Despair@ are spent. When making a combat check, after calculating overall success, each remaining Success~ result adds + 1 damage There are specific options for spending Threat <¤} and De.to a successful attack. If the attack affects multiple targets. spair@ in encounters. and the most common of these can be the additional damage is inflicted on each target. found on Table 2-2: Spending Threat {¤}and Despair@ in Combat (page 16). As with Advantage t> and Triumph 4. RESOLVE ADVANTAGE tJ AND TRIUMPH @ @, keep in mind that these are not intended to be the only As with every skill check, Advantage t> and Triumph @ can options available, and the GM is encouraged to be creative. be spent by the active character to gain incidental beneficial 6. REDUCE DAMAGE, APPLY TO WOUNDeffects on a combat check. There are specific options for THRESHOLD, AND APPLY CRITICAL INJURIES spending Advantage t> and Triumphs@ in combat encoun.ters. The most common of these effects can be found on When a character suffers damage, reduce the damage the Table 2-1: Spending Advantage t> and Triumph @ in dealt by the character's soak value. If any damage remains Combat. after this reduction, the character suffers that many wounds. If the net result is zero or negative. the character suffers Keep in mind, these are not intended to be the only op.no wounds. For more information on soak, damage, and tions available. As always, players and GMs may invent other wounds. see Wounds, Strain, and Injuries on page 19. ways to spend Advantage t> and Triumph @ depending on the specific circumstances of the encounter, and any option An attack can potentially generate a Critical Injury if the that the players and GM agree on can be viable. target suffers at least 1 wound. In this case, an NPC target is defeated outright. If the target is a PC or nemesis NPC, in.stead refer to Table 2-4: Critical Injuries on page 18. Example:Vendri is wearing padded armor and, with his natural Brawn, he has a total soak value of 4. A successful hit with a blaster pistol deals 9 points of damage to him. His soak value absorbs 4 points of this damage, which means he suffers 5 wounds. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK AGE OF REBEi enM TABLE2-2: SPENDING THREAT<¤}AND DESPAIR 'tspIN COMBAT 1 Threat {¤~or l Despair@ ,_,,_,2 Threat 'o''o' or 1 Despair@ 3 Threat 'o''o''o',_,,_,,_, or 1 Despair@ I 1 Despair@ I SOAK The active character suffers 1 strain (this option may be selected more than once) An opponent (chosen by the GM) may immediately perform one free maneuver in response to the active character's check. Add one Boost D die to the targeted character's next check. The active character or another allied character suffers one Setback die . on his next action. The active character falls prone The character's ranged weapon immediately runs out of ammunition and cannot be used for the remainder of the encounter. Upgrade the difficulty of another allied character's next check (or that of the current active character). _ The tool or melee weapon the character is using becomes damaged. I A character's soak value helps protects against incoming wounds. Most creatures and characters have a default soak value equal to their Brawn rating. Most armor and other forms of protection provide additional soak (see page 34). RANGE BANDS TheAGE OF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME relies on broad terms to describe ranges and distances. The distance between two points-people. objects. or adversaries-is defined in general range categories. These range categories are used to determine how far a ranged attack can reach. how far apart two people are from each other, how much effort is needed to move between two places. and so on. THE FIVE RANGE BANDS For ease of play, distance in AGE oF REBELLION is divided up into five different bands, from engaged to extreme. As al.ways, the GM has final say in determining the range between the attacker and the target. The GM 1s free to describe scenes dynamically and set up the action without having to worry about exact distances. Precise distances in meters do not matter. The details and story come first. creating a vivid picture for the players, while still allowing the GM to quickly provide the mechanical infor.mation players need to use their actions and build strategies. After calculating the total amount of physical damage inflicted by any source. subtract the total soak value from that damage total. The result is the number of wounds the character suffers. If the soak reduces the damage to zero or less than zero, then the character takes no damage. ENGAGED Two characters engaged with each other are in very close proximity. A character needs to be engaged with a target to strike it with a melee weapon, such as a vibroknife. Engaged is also used to indicate that a person is close enough to an item to use it. For example, a slicer needs to be engaged with a security terminal to attempt to hack it. SHORT RANGE Short range indicates up to several meters between targets_ Many thrown weapons and small firearms are most accurate at short range. Two people in short range can talk comfort.ably without raising their voices. Moving to another spot within short range requires only one maneuver. MEDIUM RANGE Medium range can be up to several dozen meters away. More reliable pistols can reach to medium range. Few thrown weap.ons can reach this far. Two people in medium range of each other need to talk loudly to hear each other. Moving from short range to medium range requires only one maneuver. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK AGE OF REBE¥ 1 lnN TABLE2-3: RANGED ATTACKDIFFICULTY Range Band ' . Difficulty Engaged Short ~ Medium ILong Extreme ADDITIONALDIFFICULTY Engaged wilh Ranged (Lighl) Engaged wilh Ranged (Heavy) Engaged wilh Gunnery LONG RANGE Long range is farther than a few dozen meters. Blaster rifles. mounted weapons. and weapons that use the Gunnery skill can reliably reach this far without too much trouble. Two people in long range of each other need to yell loudly to hear each other. Moving from medium range to long range requires two maneuvers. EXTREME RANGE Extreme range is the farthest range at which two targets can interacl. High-tech sniper weaponry and some vehicle.mounted armaments reach out to this range. Two people at extreme range might not be able to hear each other even if they shout. Moving between long range and extreme range can be extremely time consuming and taxing, and thus doing so requires two maneuvers. Example: During a battle inside a large and highly covert Imperial base on Dxun, the characters are ambushed by four ISB agents-two approaching from one side and two from the other. These foes a,e considered to be within the medium range band tv the characters. During their turns, the characters split up to attack. Two of the PCs move toward one group of ISB agents, getting within short range, and the other group moves to the opposite set of enemies. Both groups of characters are now considered to be within short range to their specific targets, but are at medium range from the other group of targets. EasyC.) plus additional modifiers depending on weapon used. EasyC.) Average C. .) Hard C...) Daunting(....) + 1 difficulty C.) + 2 difficulty C..) Cannot make Gunnery checks when engaged wilh an opponent. ¥ . DITIO COMBAT CHECK MODIFIERS A ny number of factors can modify a combat check. from en.vironmental concerns to actions the character takes. This section discusses some of these modifiers. RANGED ATTACKS AT ENGAGED TARGETS When attacking a target engaged with an ally, the attacker upgrades the difficulty of the check by one step (upgrading one Difficulty die . to a Challenge die ei. RANGED ATTACKS WHILE ENGAGED When engaged opponent makes a ranged attack against a char.acter. that character may add 1 Boost die D to the next Brawl or Melee check that character makes against that opponent. In addition. the difficulty of some ranged attacks increases while engaged. and other ranged attacks become impos.sible. See Table 2-3: Ranged Attack Difficulty on page 17 for more information. UNARMED COMBAT Characters fighting with their bare fists (or other appendage) use the Brawl combat skill. When a character does so. the attack has a base damage equal to the character's Brawn. a range of engaged. a Critical Rating of 5. and the Disorient 1 and Knockdown qualities (see Weapon Qualities on page 32). Finally, when making a Brawl attack. the attacker can choose to deal damage to the target's strain threshold in.stead of its wound threshold. Note that this strain damage is still reduced by the target's soak value. Unlike other weapons, Brawl weapons (see page 31) augment this basic attack. Brawl weapons can add damage to this attack. and can have an improved Critical Rating and additional weapon qualities. When using a Brawl weapon. the user adds the additional weapon qualities to the quali.ties already provided by the Brawl attack. If the weapon provides an improved version of an existing quality of an unarmed attack. the character uses the improved version. TABLE2-4: CRITICAL INJURIES First Critical lnJury Easy(.) Second Critical Injury Average (. .) Third Critical lnJury Hard(...) Fourth Critical Injury Hard(...) IMPROVISED WEAPONS Improvised weapons such as broken bottles. rocks. and sticks use the Melee skill. As with all Melee weapons, add the attacker's Brawn to the damage dealt. Improvised weapons generate one automatic Threat {¤} on any check and have a base damage of 1 . Any attack roll that results in a Despair @ or two or more Threat {¤} indicates that the improvised weapon breaks and 1s useless in further rounds of combat. ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS The GM can add Boost D and Setback dice . as he deems appropriate to any combat check due to environmental effects, such as darkness or smoke. COVER Being behind some sort of cover-a crate. wall, or vehicle, for example-imposes one Setback die . on the opponent's attack rolls and on certain skill checks, such as Perception. DIFFICULT TERRAIN Difficult terrain is anything that a GM decides is hard to move through or over. It can include tight passageways. bodies of water. slippery ice, thick undergrowth. loose rubble. or deep and shifting sand. Characters entering or moving through difficult terrain must perform twice as many maneuvers to movethe distance they could under normal conditions. FALLING Gravity can be extremely dangerous. If a character falls from a height within short range, he suffers 10 damage and 10 strain. Falls from greater heights can cause a character to be incapacitated or even killed. per the GM's discretion. The character suffers 2 strain immediately. No ongoing effect. The character suffers a Setback die . to his or her next check. No ongoing effect. The character suffers a Setback die . to all checks until this Critical Injury 1s healed. The character is incapacitated until this Critical Injury is healed. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK Ac:E OF REBE! ¥ IOall WOUNDS,ST IN, AND INJURIES A character's health is tracked using two independent yet similar systems: wounds and strain. WOUNDS AND WOUND THRESHOLD Damage to a character's physical body is tracked using wounds. Each point of damage inflicts one wound on a character. A character can only withstand so many wounds before being incapacitated. This physical limit is represented by the character's wound threshold. ¥ When a PC suffers wounds beyond his or her wound threshold. that PC is knocked out and incapacitated until the wounds are reduced so that they no longer ex.ceed the character's wound threshold (usually via heal.ing). The PC also immediately suffers one Critical Injury. ¥ When NPCs and creatures suffer wounds greater than their wound threshold, they are defeated, Note that the GM might wish to designate some important NPCs as nemesis NPCs. These NPCs follow the same rules for being incapacitated and suffering Critical Injuries as PCs. STRAIN AND STRAIN THRESHOLD Any effect that impairs the character. but does not inflict physical harm or wounds. is considered strain. ¥ When a PC suffers strain beyond his or her strain threshold. that PC is incapacitated until the strain is reduced so that it no longer exceeds the PC's strain threshold. ¥ When an NPC suffers strain, it applies the strain directly to its wound threshold (unless it is a high-level opponentsuch as a nemesis. who instead uses the same rules as PCs). INCAPACITATED Because "Rebel operative" is a dangerous oc.cupation in the best of circumstances, Player Characters often find themselves in treacherous situations. While even the most stalwart charac.ter cannot survive everything, the AGE OF REBELLION BEGINNERGAME does not include rules for Player IllCharacter death. Instead, a PC who becomes too injured or strained will find himself incapacitated. A character is incapacitated once he has suffered more . wounds than his wound threshold or more strain than his strain threshold. Incapacitation means that a char.acter is unconscious and unable to act until the num.ber of wounds or strain he is suffering is decreased to a value equal or below the appropriate threshold. Characters may also voluntarily suffer strain to trigger certain effects. such as gaining additional maneuvers or activating certain talents. CRITICAL INJURIES A particularly dangerous type of wound is a Critical Injury. Critical Injuries are often the result of attacks that trigger their Critical Rating during combat. but characters can also suffer them from exceeding their wound thresh.old. Each time a character suffers a Critical Injury, that character suffers ill effects based on the number of Critical Injuries he or she is currently suffering from (see Table 2-4: Critical Injuries on page 18). RECOVERY AND HEALING While characters can be afflicted with various ailments and types of damage, there are several options for recovery. RECOVERING FROM WOUNDS Characters can recover from wounds in several different ways. Find some options (and restrictions) for healing below: ¥ Natural Rest: For each full night's rest. a character recovers one wound. At the end of each full week of rest, the character may attempt a Resilience check to recov.er from one Critical Injury. The difficulty for this check depends on the number of Critical Injuries the charac.ter is currently suffering from [see Table 2-4: Critical Injuries on page 18). A Triumph@ result means the character can heal one additional Critical Injury. Droids benefit from natural rest as well. as their subroutines and automated systems enact self-repairs. ¥ Medical Care: Once per encounter. a character may attempt a Medicine check to patch up injuries (or have an engaged ally attempt the check instead). The dif.ficulty of the check is based on the character's current state of health (see Table 3-1: Medicine Check Dif.ficulty on page 23). If the character does not have access to proper medical supplies [such as a medpac). the difficulty of the check is increased by 1 (.). On a successful check, the target recovers a number of wounds equal to the number of Successes >ffgenerated by the Medicine check and an amount of strain equal to the amount of Advantage tJ, generated. Once per week. a character may also attempt to heal a Critical Injury by making a Medicine check (or have an engaged ally attempt the check) with a difficulty based on the number of Critical Injuries he or she is currently suffer.ing from (see Table2-4: Critical Injuries on page 18). D ro ids do not benefit from medical care in the traditional sense. How.ever. a skilled machinist can use the Mechanics skill to treat a droid in the same way a doc.tor treats an organic patient with the Medicine skill. ¥ Bacta Tanks: Characters can also recover using a bacta tank. Bacta tanks are rare outside of medical installa.tions. A wounded character recovers at a rate of one wound per two hours. At the end of each 24-hour period, a character may attempt one Resilience check to remove one Critical Injury. The difficulty for this check depends on the number of Critical Injuries the character is currently suffering from (see Table 2-4: Critical Injuries on page 18). Droids do not benefit from spending time in a bacta tank. However. they can gain the same benefits from spending time in an oil bath. ¥ Stimpacks: Stimpacks heal a fixed amount with no check necessary. Each stimpack used on a character automatically recovers four wounds. It requires one maneuver for characters to inject themselves or en.gaged allies. Stimpacks have no effect on Critical Inju.ries. See page 35 for more information on stimpacks. Droids cannot use stimpacks. However. they benefit from emergency repair patches in the exact same way. See page 36 for more information on emergency repair patches. RECOVERING FROM STRAIN Fortunately, recovering from strain is fairly easy. At the end of each encounter. each PC recovers strain equal to his or her Presence or ranks in the Cool skill. whichever 1s greater. Furthermore. a good night's rest generally removes all strain a character has suffered. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK AGE OF REBE¥ ¥ !ON T he vast majority of a character's actions are governed by abilities acquired through education or experience. Any time a character attempts an action that has a reasonable chance of success or failure. the skills the character has honed come into play as a means of determining the result. Almost anything that a character might learn could be con.sidered a skill. The galaxy is a vast place. however. and not everything a person might learn applies directly to a dramatic game. To reflect this, the AGE oF REBELLION GAMEBEGINNER includes a list of skills that are most likely to come up in the course of fast-paced adventures set within the Star Wars gal.axy. The list might not cover every imaginable situation. but it should address the majority of skills characters are likely to use over the course of a BEGINNER session.GAME CAREERSKILLS E ach character has several skills denoted on his or her character sheet as career skills. These are skills that define the core focus of a character's chosen career. These skills are less expensive to advance when spending experience. SKILL RANKS Every time a character prepares to make a skill check. the player who controls that character starts by forming a dice pool. The higher of the character's values for the relevant characteristic or skill determines the total number of Abil.ity dice .. The smaller of these two values indicates how many of those dice are upgraded to Proficiency dice 0. A character who has not spent XP to purchase ranks 1n a skill is considered unskilled. This character has a value of 0 for the skill in question. thus makes checks using that skill without any Proficiency dice 0. The first two ranks of a skill represent that a character has a thorough grounding in that skill but limited practical experience. The third and fourth ranks are indicative of a true professional. These are individuals who have honed the skill thoroughly and can make their living at it. Few beings actually attain the fifth rank of a skill; after all. only a rare and gifted individual can adequately appreciate Lhe artistry of a master, whatever that artisan's craft, so those who strive to attain this level of expertise must deliberately challenge themselves to perfect their skills. BEGINNER RULEBOOI<GAME Ac:E OF REBE¥ 1!ON Sl<ILL DESCRIPTIONS This section provides a basic description of each of the skills used in the Ace OF REBELLION Bec1NNER GAME. Each skill is presented with clarifications on how it can best be used, along with notes on key differences from similar skills. ASTROGATION (INTELLECT) The Astrogation skill represents a character's ability to use knowledge of the galaxy to most effectively program the hyper.space coordinates for any jump. Astrogation examples include: ¥ Programming a navicomputer for a hyperspace jump. ¥ Providing an answer when a character wonders what other planets and systems are nearby. ATHLETICS (BRAWN) The Athletics skill serves as a measure of the character's overall fitness and physical conditioning. Athletics examples include: ¥ Climbing. The difficulty of this task is determined based on the surface and weather conditions. ¥ Swimming in difficult conditions. Water conditions.particularly waves, currents, and tides-dictate the overall challenge of any efforts to swim. ¥ Vertical and horizontal jumping. Gravitational condi.tions and the distance a character tries to jump are the factors most likely to affect difficulty calculations. BRAWL (BRAWN) Some individuals are thoroughly trained in unarmed combat, have natural weapons that they prefer to use during physical altercations, or seek to drop foes without seriously injuring them. In any of these situations, Brawl is the skill used to determine the success or failure of a hand-to-hand strike. Attacks made with Brawl can inflict wounds or strain upon their target (the attacker chooses when making the attack). CHARM (PRESENCE) An individual with the Charm skill is capable of giving just the right compliment to a target. Charm examples include: ¥ Persuading an individual to make a special exception to protocol through flattery, flirting, and grace. ¥ Appealing to a target to go out of the way to aid the characters, without any hope of remuneration. Charm is often an opposed check. using the subject's Presence or Cool COERCION {WILLPOWER) When a character attempts to instill obedience in a target through the use of threats or acts of physical intimidation. the character uses Coercion. Examples include: ¥ Issuing a threat. An implied threat-such as gesturing or pointing towards a weapon-is sufficient to invoke the use of the Coercion skill. ¥ Questioning or persuading a target to yield information under conditions of physical captivity. Coercion is an opposed check, resisted by the subject's Willpower or Discipline. Attempting to persuade a subject to betray core beliefs should always add an extra Difficulty die . to the pool. COMPUTERS (INTELLECT) The Computers skill is used to program, manipulate, and exploit the seemingly infinite computer systems and droid brains found throughout the galaxy. This skill also governs the repair of a damaged computer system, defensive actions against an intruding slicer, and the routine maintenance needed to keep the software on a computer or droid run.ning effectively. Computers examples include: ¥ Attempting to open a locked door, control an elevator, or bypass a security system. ¥ Altering a droid's programming or ga1n1ngaccess to its memories. The difficulty for a Computers check is calculated based on any defenses present within the system and the inherent sophistication of the system against intrusion COOL (PRESENCE) Rebel operatives need to be able to act casual in even the deadliest situations, to avoid blowing their cover. Characters with the Cool skill have the ability to stay calm and think clearly even as their lives hang in the balance. Cool is also used to resist Charm and Negotiation. In some combat situations, a character's Initiative is deter.mined by the Cool skill. This is applicable under circumstanc.es in which the acting character has calmly prepared to take action. See page 12 for full details. ' COORDINATION (AGILITY} When a character needs to balance on unstable surfaces, crawl through narrow openings, or tumble from danger.ous heights, the character uses the Coordination skill. Coordination examples include: ¥ Walking across a narrow surface. ¥ Escaping from restraints. ¥ Crawling through the twists and turns of a sewage pipe, ventilation duct, or garbage chute. DECEPTION (CUNNING) When a falsehood plays the central part in a character's per.suasive effort. then that character is employing the Decep.tion skill. Attempts to deceive are subject to the perceptions of the target. Deception is opposed by the subject's Disci.pline. Deception examples include: ¥ Misleading a buyer or seller about the value of an object. ¥ Distracting an opponent through guile-even within the context of a physical confrontation. DISCIPLINE (WILLPOWER) The ability to maintain composure and react in an effective manner is governed by the Discipline skill. Discipline can enable a character to overcomeattempted treachery and threats that others seek to impose upon him or her. It is used to resist other characters' uses of Leadership, Coercion, and Deception. Discipline examples include: ¥ Acting normally when pinned by heavy fire. ¥ Facing down a terrifying foe rather than fleeing. GUNNERY (AGILITY} Gunnery applies to weapons that are typically too large for a person to carry. Gunnery examples include: ¥ Firing a starfighter's weapons. ¥ Using a vehicle-mounted weapon or a turret built into a defensive emplacement. KNOWLEDGE (INTELLECT) The actions that a character takes are often performed in reaction to his knowledge about a situation. Players can nev.er be expected to know as much about life ,n the game set.ting as the characters who have lived there. The Knowledge skill serves to bridge this gap. It enables players to make decisions about their characters' actions that are informed by what the characters might know about the galaxy around them. Knowledge examples include: ¥ Recognizing accents, dress, and mannerisms that are associated with a particular world. ¥ Understanding basic scientific information. ¥ Deciphering an ancient piece of writing or identifying its context. ¥ Determining the best location to sell a cargo of goods. ¥ Identifying the vulnerabilities of another species. LEADERSHIP(PRESENCE) The Leadership skill represents a character's ability to instill faith and trust in friends, allies, and subbordinates. Leader.ship examples include: ¥ Rallying allies. ¥ Swaying an assembled crowd to take action. The difficulty of a Leadership check is based on the com.plexity of the orders a character is attempting to convey , as ¥well as the intelligence and professionalism of the subjects that character is attempting to command. . MECHANICS (INTELLECT) The Mechanics skill represents the expertise required to repair anything from a failed hyperspace engine to a trusty blaster. Mechanics examples include: ¥ Repairing a device that has suffered physical damage, provided the necessary tools and replacement compo.nents are available. Droids do not benefit from Medi.cine, but they can substitute the Mechanics skill for the same healing effects (see Medicine below). ¥ Identifying the parts and tools necessary for a repair job along with their approximate cost. MEDICINE (INTELLECT) Through the course of their travels, characters are certain to suffer injuries. The Medicine skill is used to treat these injuries and perform first aid. Medicine examples include: ¥ Giving routine first aid. ¥ Treating a poison. ¥ Performing surgeries, implanting cybernetic augmen.tations, or administering psychological therapy.these generally require additional medical supplies. When treating injuries, the difficulty of the check is based on the target's current state of health (see Table3-1 : Med.icine Check Difficulty). On a successful check, the target recovers a number of wounds equal to the number of Suc.cesses~ generated by the Medicine check and an amount of strain equal to the amount of Advantage tJ, generated Droids may do benefit from Medicine. but they can substi.tute the Mechanics skill for these same healing checks. Char.acters attempting to treat their own injuries increase the dif.ficulty of the Medicine check by 2. TABLE3-1: MEDICINECHECKDIFFICULTY State of Health i Medicine Check Current wounds equal half of I Easy C.)wound threshold or less. Current wounds more than Average C. .>half of wound threshold IWounds exceed wound Hard c...>threshold I .. .Critical Injury Severity Rating Critical Injury per Table 2-4: Critical Injuries on page 18 BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBE! ¥ ION MELEE (BRAWN) The majority of melee weapons depend upon the wielder's slrength to inflict damage. Virtually any reasonably sturdy object can be used as a makeshift weapon. so a character who has become adept at the Melee skill can often make do with what's available. Attacks made with Melee inflict wounds upon their target unless the acting character has a weapon that specifically induces strain. NEGOTIATION (PRESENCE) The art of negotiation deals with determining exactly how much of what a subject wants must be surrendered in order to gel a particular good or service in return. Negotiation is opposed by the subject's Presence or Cool. Negotiation examples include: ¥ Purchasing goods or services for less than the seller's asking price. ¥ Selling goods or services-whether legal or of a more proscribed nature-at the best price possible. PERCEPTION (CUNNING) Characters must often maintain a careful awareness of their environment. The Perception skill represenls the character's constant, passive state of awareness. Perception can be op.posed by skills used for concealment or m1ghl have a dif.ficulty set by the environment. Perception examples include: ¥ Noticing a trap or an ambush before falling prey to a surprise assault. ¥ Spotting a disguised opponent. ¥ Noticing a subtle clue. such as an overheard conversa.tion or the smell of a recently fired blaster. PILOTING (AGILITY) The Galactic Civil War is fought on many fronts, and with a myriad of different vessels, from vast warships to lumbering walkers to nimble starfighters and atmospheric craft. No mat.ter how a vehicle moves-by rolling, gliding, walking, flying, or floating-the skill that governs its use is Piloting. Under normal conditions and for regular actions. a char.acter is not required to make a Piloting check. When those actions are complicated by treacherous weather conditions. the use of a failing vehicle, or enemy fire, then the character piloting the craft must demonstrate his or her expertise. RANGED (HEAVY) (AGILITY) When fired upon a target at range, weapons that are held with two hands offer a more stable firing platform than those that are held in a single hand. Further, rifles and other such firearms are generally more deadly and more accurate than their lighter counterparts. These large weapons depend upon the Ranged (Heavy) skill for their operation. RANGED {LIGHT) {AGILITY) The Ranged (Light) skill includes the use of any weapon that can be fired with one hand without the benefit of a brace or other support element. RESILIENCE {BRAWN) Resilience represents a character's physical fortitude against threats such as sleep deprivation, brutal climates, the most restrictive of rations, and ingested toxins. This skill reflects the body's ability to be pushed beyond reasonable limits. Resilience examples include: ¥ Attempting to go without sleep for significantly longer than is healthy for the character's species. ¥ Resisting the effects of a toxin after ingesting it. ¥ Enduring prolonged exposure to a hostile environment-such as one with extreme heat, cold, or toxic pollution. Sl<ULDUGGERY {CUNNING) Skulduggery encompasses a broad range of skills that are crucial to performing physical covert operations such as picking pockets and locks, breaking into and out of secure facilities, sleight of hand, disguise. setting traps, and sundry other mischievous actions. At the Game Master's discretion. a particular Skulduggery check can use Agility instead of Cunning, to reflect a more physical approach. Skulduggery is often opposed by a target's Perception-for the watchful-or Vigilance. Skulduggery examples include: ¥ Picking a lock using physical tools rather than slicing into a computer. Note that not every electronic lock has a physical interface. ¥ Escaping from a cell by palming a key and safely navi.gating away from security elements. STEALTH {AGILITY) The Stealth skill reflects how talented a character is at not being noticed. Stealth examples include: ¥ Attempting to blend in with a crowd. ¥ Hiding from all of an opponent's senses. ¥ Hiding people or ob.jects from the atten.tions of others. either through concealment or m1sd1rect1on. STREETWISE {CUNNING) The Streetwise skill represents the ability of a character to survive in the less savory portions of the galaxy by recognizing the warning signs that come with danger as well as those that might signal an opportunity. Streetwise examples include: ¥ Looking for a merchant who specializes in unsavory goods or illicit services. ¥ Discovering rumors that are actively circulating within . a region. SURVIVAL {CUNNING) . Learning to recognize the dangers of the natural environ.ment as well as how to exploit its resources is dependent upon the Survival skill. Survival examples include: ¥ Identifying safe food, potable water, or shelter in a nat.ural environment. ¥ Recognizing the signs of dangerous weather conditions and knowing the best way to prepare for them. ¥ Tracking one's quarry through the wilderness-whether that target is game or an enemy soldier. VIGILANCE {WILLPOWER) In uncertain times, characters skilled in Vigilance are con.stantly prepared to face a variety of challenges and are far more likely to succeed than those who simply react to ever.changing circumstances. This sort of preparedness requires mental discipline, and also hinges upon the character having the wisdom and foresight to keep a variety of essential tools and supplies close at hand. In combat situations, outside of those times when a charac.ter has patiently prepared to begin the engagement. Vigilance is used to calculate Initiative. See page 12 for details. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBELLION P layer Characters are often distinguished by their spe.cial abilities. Where a minor character might surrender to overwhelming odds. a hero is expected to dramatically triumph. Talents provide a game mechanic for a character to perform tasks with superhuman flair and ability. These generally represent specialized techniques that a character has mastered-typically through intense practice and study. A character is most likely to succeed when equipped with both a skill and a talent that is appropriate for the situation. TALENT TREES Each of the Ace oF REBELLION Bec1NNER GAME character folios has a talent tree on the final spread. As the GM continues to award experience. the players can invest it by selecting new talents from the trees. Any time a player wishes to select a new talent for a char.acter, the player must first make certain that it is currently accessible on the character's tree. In order to navigate to a new talent, the character must have already purchased all of the preceding talents listed on the tree, descending through a particular path on the tree. All such descents must follow the available lines shown on the tree. Note that for some trees. directly descending within a single column is not pos.sible, because there is a break in the listing. In these cases. the character must first acquire a talent from an adjacent column and create a new path to the desired talent. For more information on investing experience in talents, see Investing Experience Points on page 11. TALENT RANKS AND PURCHASING THE SAME TALENT MULTIPLE TIMES Some trees have multiple entries for a single talent. This is because several of the talents can be learned repeatedly. When a character learns a talent for the second, third, or later time. he or she gains an additional rank of the talent. Example: Owen's character Vendri has one rank in the Rapid Recovery talent, which lets a character recover 1 additional strain per rank at the end of each encounter. As Vendri has 1 rank of the talent, he recovers 1 addi.tional strain at the end of each encounter. When Vendri purchases a second rank of Rapid Recovery, he recov.ers 2 additional strain at the end of each encounter. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBELUON TALENT DESCRIPTIONS B elow is a list of the talents used in the AGE oF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME. Every entry includes the information required for gameplay: ¥ Activation explains whether a talent is always in use (Passive)or if a character must take some sort of action in order to activate it (Active). If a talent is active, the type of action necessary for activation is indicated. Some talents can be activated on other characters' turns. If this is the case. the Activation will also include the "out of turn" note. ¥ Ranked indicates whether a talent can be purchased multiple times (Yes) or only once (No). ADVERSARY Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes Upgrade the difficulty of any combat check targeting this character once per rank of Adversary (NPC only). BAD MOTIVATOR Activation: Active (Action) Ranked:No Once per game session, the character may take a Bad Moti.vator action to make a Hard (. . .) Mechanics check. If successful,one device (subject to the GM's approval) sponta.neously fails due to the character's involvement, or because it was about to fail anyway and the character noticed it (this is the character's decision). BARRAGE Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes Add one damage per rank of Barrage to one hit of success.ful Ranged (Heavy) or Gunnery attacks with non-starship/ vehicle weapons at long or extreme range. BYPASS SECURITY Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes Remove one Setback die . per rank in Bypass Security from Skulduggery or Computers skill checks made to disable a security device or open a locked door. CODEBREAKER Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes The character remove one Setback die . per rank in Codebreaker from any attempt to break codes or decrypt communications. In addition, the character decreases the difficulty of Computers or Intellect checks made to break codes or decrypt communications by one (this does not increase with additional ranks of Codebreaker). CONTRAPTION Activation: Active (Action) Ranked: No Once per game session, the character can take a Contraption action. With a successful Hard(...) Mechanics check, the Illcharacter can fashion a device to solve a current problem using the tools and parts on hand. This device must be approved by the GM and functions for the duration of the current encounter .only. Those tools are destroyed in the process. Triumph @may be spent to allow the tools to be recovered and reused later. DEAD TO RIGHTS Activation: Active (Incidental) Ranked: No The character may spend one Destiny Point to add addi.tional damage equal to half the character's Agility (rounded up) to one hit of a successful attack made by ship or vehicle.mounted weaponry. DEAD TO RIGHTS (IMPROVED) Activation: Active (Incidental) Ranked: No The character may spend one Destiny Point to add addition.al damage equal to the character's Agility to one hit of a suc.cessful attack made by ship or vehicle-mounted weaponry. This replaces the normal ability for Dead to Rights. DEADLY ACCURACY Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes Each time the character gains a rank of Deadly Accuracy, choose one combat skill. The character may add ranks in that combat skill as additional damage to one hit of a suc.cessful attack made with that skill with non-starship/vehicle weapons. The character cannot choose the same combat skill twice. DEFENSIVE DRIVING Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes Any vehicle the character pilots has its defense rating on all zones increased by one per rank of Defensive Driving. DODGE Activation: Active (Incidental, Out of Turn) Ranked: Yes When targeted by a combat check (ranged or melee). the character may choose to immediately perform a Dodge in.cidental to suffer a number of strain, then upgrade the dif.ficulty of the combat check by that number. The number of strain suffered cannot exceed the character's ranks in Dodge. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACiE OF REBELUON ENDURING Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes Character gains + 1 soak value per rank of Enduring. FERAL STRENGTH Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes The character deals + 1 damage to one hit on all successful Brawl and Melee checks per rank of Feral Strength. FULL THROTTLE Activation: Active (Action) Ranked: No The character may push a ship or vehicle past its limits of speed. The character may perform the Full Throttle action, attempting a Hard (. . .) Piloting check. With success, the ship's top speed increases by one for a number of rounds equal to Cunning. The ship still cannot perform actions or maneuvers it could not perform normally (such as actions that have a minimum speed requirement). FULL THROTTLE (IMPROVED) Activation: Active (Maneuver) Ranked: No The character may voluntarily suffer one strain to attempt Full Throttle as a maneuver In addition, the difficulty of Full Throttle is reduced to Average (. .). GRIT Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes Increase the character's strain threshold by + 1 per rank of Grit. HEIGHTENED AWARENESS Activation: Passive Ranked:No Allies in close range of the character add one Boost die Oto Perception and Vigilance checks. Engaged allies add two Boost dice D instead. INTENSE FOCUS Activation: Active (Maneuver) Ranked: No Before making a skill check, the character may perform the Intense Focus maneuver. The char.acter suffers one strain to upgrade the Ability of the skill check once. KNOCKDOWN Activation: Passive Ranked: No After hitting with a melee attack, the character may knock the target prone by spending one @. If the target is larger than the character, it requires one additional@ for each silhou.ette the target is larger than the character. LET'S RIDE Activation: Active (Incidental) Ranked:No Once per round on the character's turn, the character may mount or dismount from a vehicle or beast. or slide into the cockpit or weapon station aboard a starship, as an inciden.tal instead of a maneuver. NATURAL MARKSMAN Activation: Active (Incidental) Ranked: No Once per game session, the character may reroll any one Ranged (Light) or Ranged (Heavy) check. NATURAL PROGRAMMER Activation: Active (Incidental) Ranked:No Once per game session, the character may reroll any one Computers or Astrogation check. NATURAL ROGUE Activation: Active (Incidental) Ranked: No Once per game session, the character may reroll any one Skulduggery or Stealth check. NATURAL SCHOLAR Activation: Active (Incidental) Ranked: No Once per game session, the character may reroll any one Knowledge skill check. POINT BLANK Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes The character adds one damage per rank of Point Blank to one hit of successful Ranged (Heavy) or Ranged (Light) attacks made while at short range or engaged. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF RFB~LUON QUICK STRIKE Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes The character adds one Boost die D per rank of Ou:ck Strike to combat checks made against any target that has not yet acted in the encounter. RAPID RECOVERY Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes When healing strain after an encounter ends. this character heals one additional strain per rank in Rapid Recovery. RESEARCHER Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes The character removes one Setback die . per rank of Researcher from all Knowledge checks. Researching takes 50% less time (this does not increase with multiple ranks). RESOLVE Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes When the character suffers strain, he or she suffers one less strain per rank of Resolve, to a minimum of one. This does not apply to voluntary strain loss. SKILLED JOCKEY Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes The character removes one Setback die . per rank of Skilled Jockey from all Piloting checks. SNIPER SHOT Activation: Active (Maneuver) Ranked: Yes Once per round before making a non-thrown ranged attack, the character may perform a maneuver to attempt a Snip.er Shot. Sniper Shot increases the maximum range of for ranged weapons by up to one range band per rank. For each rank beyond the normal maximum range of the weapon, upgrade the difficulty of the check by one (this is in addition to the increased difficulty of the shot due to longer range). SOFT SPOT Activation: Active (Incidental) Ranked: No After making a successful attack with a non-starship/vehicle weapon, the character may spend one Destiny Point to add damage equal to the character's Cunning to one hit of the successful attack. SOLID REPAIRS Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes The character repairs + 1 hull trauma per rank of Solid Repairs when repairing a vehicle or starship. SPEAKS BINARY Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes The character grants one Boost die D per rank of Speaks Binary to tasks he or she directs non-player droids to perform. STALKER Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes The character adds one Boost die D per rank of Stalker to Ill all Coordination and Stealth checks. STIMPACK SPECIALIZATION . Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes Whenever the character uses a stimpack, the target he or she heals with the stimpack recovers an additional wound per rank of Stimpack Specialization. STROKE OF GENIUS Activation: Active (Incidental) Ranked: No Once per game session, the character can choose to make one skill check using Intellect rather than the characteristic linked to that skill (but must also explain his or her flash of insight). TOUGHENED Activation: Passive Ranked: Yes Increase the character's wound threshold by two per rank of Toughened. TRICKY TARGET Activation: Passive Ranked: No Any vehicle the character pilots counts as having a silhouette one lower (minimum 0) than normal when being attacked. TRUE AIM Activation: Active (Maneuver) Ranked: Yes Once per round, before the character makes a ranged at.tack, the character may perform a True Aim maneuver. By performing this maneuver, the character gains all the ben.efits for aiming and also upgrades the attack roll once per rank of True Aim. \ 1111 A s important as skill and ability might be, sometimes it's just as useful to have a trusty blaster by your side. Having the right equipment can often help characters resolve tasks more effectively. In the following section, players can find information on some common personal weapons, armor, and gear critical for fighting the good fight against the Empire. WEAPONS The galaxy is filled with strange and wondrous devices. A large number of then, are designed to blast. obliterate. or al the very least intimidate their wielder's foes. Below are some of the weapons most common to soldiers, spies, and representatives of the Rebel Alliance-as well as their foes! ¥ CURRENCY Goods and services are paid for with "credits." This is a uni.versal term for everything from local units of currency with distinctive names and denominations to the galactic stan.dard Imperial credit. All are interchangeable and can be carried as physical bills or coins. or tracked via digital cred sticks (also called "chips"). AMMO The weapons in Star Wars are primarily energy.based. Except when using weaponry with the Limited Ammo quality (see page 32). it is not necessary to track ammunition. However, a weapon can still "run out" of ammo when a Despair symbol @ is rolled during com.bat. This reflects the weapon's energy source being drained. The character must perform a maneuver to slap a new energy cell into the weapon before it can Q,e fired again. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBE¥ ¥ ION BLASTERS The most common type of weapon in the galaxy is the blast.er Most blasters can be set to Stun. overloading the victim's nervous system to cause temporary paralysis (see the Stun Damage weapon quality under Weapon Qualities on page 32). Stun beams can only be used at short and medium range, no matter the weapon's normal range. Switching be.tween "Stun" and "Kill" requires an incidental action. HOLDOUT BLASTER PISTOL The smallest examples of blasters are easy to conceal but still pack a powerful punch. Add one Difficulty die . to a character's Perception check when attempting to find a hold.out blaster pistol on a person's body. LIGHT BLASTER PISTOL A good compromise between concealment and power, light blasters are favored by those who often need a firearm-but Just as often need to pretend they don't. BLASTER PISTOL Most spacers carry standard blaster pistols. They pack a punch, have decent range, and are light enough to carry around at all times. HEAVY BLASTER PISTOL Heavy blasters are very powerful. Their only major drawback is that they can fire fewer shots than other blasters, a trade.off for the increased power. Game Masters can spend three Threat {¤~ symbols to have a heavy blaster pistol run out of ammo (see Table 2-2: Spending Threat {¤~and Despair @ in Combat on page 16). BLASTER RIFLE/ CARBINE Blaster nfle and carbines are the typical firearms of soldiers and heavy security forces around the galaxy. HEAVY REPEATING BLASTER These deadly weapons fire much more slowly than their light.er counterparts but are designed to destroy light machinery, armored targets, and opponents in cover. Heavy repeaters are far too unwieldy to fire effectively without the included tripod, which takes 2 rounds to set up. When the weapon is fired from the tripod, decrease its Cumbersome rating by 3. DISRUPTOR RIFLE A deadly weapon that fires a beam of charged particles capable of reducing most enemies to smoldering atoms in a single shot, a disruptor rifle sends a message that few are jaded enough to ignore: "Get in my way, and you die.áá EXPLOSIVES Explosive devices might not be as ubiquitous as blasters, but they're no less deadly FRAG GRENADE Frag Grenades are designed to cause as much damage and mayhem as possible over a large area They can be set to detonate on impact or set with a timer to detonate up to 3 rounds after being activated at the beginning of the attacker's action. STUN GRENADE Stun grenades shock the senses. They can be set to detonate on impact or set with a timer to detonate up to 3 rounds af.ter being activated at the beginning of the attacker's action. ARMOR PIERCING (AP) GRENADE ¥ Designed to cut straight through armored foes, the aptly.named "armor piercing grenade" is a favorite of many Rebel . soldiers and operatives who take the idea of destroying the Galactic Empire particularly literally (or simply enjoy apply.ing high-impact explosives to all problems and obstacles). Though they lack the blast radius of frag grenades, these devices can be extremely versatile in the hands of veterans, and can be used to bring down doors. obliterate stormtroop.ers. and more. They can be set to detonate on impact or set with a timer to detonate up to 3 rounds after being activated at the beginning of the attacker's action. BRAWLING WEAPONS This category includes weapons designed to fit directly over the fists. BRASS KNUCKLES Dirty fighters and those looking to protect their fists from the tough hides of certain alien species rely on these metal.lic knuckles. MELEE WEAPONS Some wielders prefer a blade to a blaster. as they know the blade is far more reliable and just as deadly in the right hands. COMBAT KNIFE Vicious combatants rely on sharp blades to slice and gash their foes. A knife is also far easier to conceal than a firearm and equally lethal if the user is skilled in its use. FORCE PIKE Long-hafted, two-handed weapons fitted with energy blades that can inflict terrible injuries upon anyone they strike, force pikes are the chosen weapon of Emperor Palpatine's crimson-clad guards. TRUNCHEON Truncheonscan be made of metal, wood, bone, or other ma.terials, but all fulfill the same basic functions-bruising flesh. breaking bones, and cracking skulls. VIBROKNIFE A vibroknife is essentially a modded combat knife. It contains a small but powerful device within the handle that vibrates the blade at an incredibly high frequency. This causes it to function as a miniature saw, and allows it to slice through armor and flesh with startling ease. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBELLION WEAPON QUALITIES Some weapons feature special qualities. Special qualities are either passive or active. Passive qualities are always on and require no activation on the part of the user. Active qualities musl be triggered by the user. requiring two Advantage O results or one Triumph @result to activate unless otherwise stated in their description. Weapon qualities often have a number associated with them. This is their rating. Ratings affect qualities in different ways, depending on the quality in question. AUTO-FIRE (ACTIVE) An auto-fire weapon has the chance to hit multiple targets or strike a single target multiple times but with sacrificed ac.curacy. The attacker must increase the difficulty of his attack roll by one (add one Difficulty die . to the attack roll). Auto-fire requires two Advantage O to activate. and can be activated multiple times. Each time it is activated. the weapon deals an additional hit to the target or to another target en.gaged with the first target. Each of these counts as an addi.tional hit from that weapon. and each hit deals base damage plus the number of net Successes ~ scored on the check. Note that each target can never suffer more Critical Injuries or Critical Hits than the number of times it was hit by the weapon. BREACH (PASSIVE) Breach weapons ignore one point of armor (on starships and vehicles) for every rating of Breach. They also ignore 10 points of soak for every rating of Breach. BLAST (ACTIVE) The weapon has a large spread or explosive blast. If the attack 1s successful and Blast activates. each character (friend or foe) engaged with the original target suffers dam.age equal to the weapon's Blast rating (plus an additional damage per net Success~ as usual). If the Blast quality doesn't activate. the ordnance still detonates. but only hits the original target for normal damage. CUMBERSOME (PASSIVE) A Cumbersome weapon is large, unwieldy, awkward, or heavy. To wield a Cumbersome weapon properly, the char.acter needs a Brawn characteristic equal to or greater than the weapon's Cumbersome rating. For each point of Brawn by which the character is deficient. he must increase the dif.ficulty of all checks made while using the weapon by 1. DISORIENT (ACTIVE) A weapon with Disorient can daze an opponent. When Disorient is triggered, the target is disoriented for a number of rounds equal to the weapon's Disorient rating. A disori.ented target adds one Setback die . to all skill checks he performs. KNOCKDOWN (ACTIVE) When Knockdown is triggered. the target is knocked prone. ION (PASSIVE) Ion weapons are designed to knock out opponents' shields, sensors. and engines. They have shorter range than laser weapons. and deal larger amounts of damage, but their damage is dealt to the target's strain threshold. This damage is still reduced by armor and soak. LIMITED AMMO (PASSIVE) A weapon with the Limited Ammo quality can be used to make a number of attacks equal to its Limited Ammo rating before it must be reloaded with a maneuver. In addition, each shot expends one of a limited number of rounds, which must be purchased or otherwise obtained before the weapon can be used again. This also applies to grenades and other "one use" weapons that have the Limited Ammo 1 quality. LINKED (ACTIVE) Some paired weapons are designed to fire together at the same target. When firing a Linked weapon, on a successful attack, the weapon deals one hit, then one additional hit for every Advantage tJ, gained on the Gunnery check, up to the weapon's Linked rating. Additional hits from Linked weapons can only be applied against the original target. PIERCE (PASSIVE) An attack made with this weapon ignores an amount of soak equal to the weapon's Pierce rating. If the weapon has a higher Pierce rating than the target's total soak. attacks made with it completely ignore that target's soak. For example, Cael stabs a battle droid with his vibroknife, which has Pierce 2. If that droid has 3 soak, Cael ignores 2 of that soak, and the droid counts as only having 1 soak against his attack. If the droid had 2 soak, then Cael's attack would ignore its soak entirely. STUN DAMAGE (PASSIVE) Some weaporis deal Stun damage instead of regular dam.age. In this case. the weapon deals damage as strain instead of wounds. This damage is still reduced by a target's soak. A variant of this is Stun setting. As an incidental action. the wielder can choose to switch the setting of his weapon to "Stun." In this case. it does Stun damage as described above. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBELUON TABLE5-1: WEAPONS ' Name Skill Dam Crit Range Price Special------~---_ _,__ _ ___,___--'---=-------_,__-----'-----'-------------.Blasters Holdout Blaster Ranged (Light) 5 4 Short Light Blaster Ranged (Light) 5 4 MediumPistol r-;aster Pistol Ranged (Light) 6 3 ~d1um Heavy Blaster Ranged (Light) 7 3 MediumPistol I [ Blaster Carbine Ranged (Heavy) 9 Mediumr ~I Blaster Rifle Ranged (Heavy) 9 3 Long Heavy l Repeating Gunnery 15 2 Long Blaster Disruptor Rifle Ranged (Heavy) 10 2 Long Frag Grenade Ranged (Light) 8 4 Short Stun Grenade Ranged (Light) r 8 1N/AJ Short Armor Piercing Ranged (Light) 16 3 ShortGrenade Brawling Weapons Brass Knuckles Brawl +1 4 Engaged Combat Knife Melee +1 3 Engaged Force Pike 7 Melee +3 3 Engaged Truncheon Melee +2 5 Engaged Vibroknife =LMelee +1 I 2 Engaged ~ WEAPON CHARACTERISTICS Each weapon has a variety of characteristics that define its abilities and make it distinct. NAME The general name of the weapon. SKILL USED The combat skill used when attempting an attack with this weapon. BASE DAMAGE (DAM) The base damage the weapon inflicts before adding damage from uncanceled Successes "tf.When calculating the total damage for a hit. each net Success "tfgenerated by the attack check adds one point of damage to this base damage rating. 200 Stun setting 300 Stun setting 400 Stun setting 700 Stun setting 850 Stun setting .J 900 Stun setting -, 6,000 Auto-fire. Cumbersome 5. Pierce2 5,000 Cumbersome2. Pierce5 50 Blast6, Limited Ammo 1 75 Blast8. Disorient3, Stun damage, Limited Ammo 1 100 Pierce 3 25 Disorient 3 25 l 500 Pierce2, Stun setting 15 Disorient2 250 Pierce2l I = RANGE The effective range of the weapon. See Range Bands on page 16. CRITICAL RATING (CRIT) Indicates the number of Advantage tJ, required to trigger a Critical Injury using this weapon. PRICE This is the price of the weapon on the open market. SPECIAL The qualities or other special rules this weapon possesses. More in-depth descriptions of these qualities can be found on page 32, while rules specific to a certain type of weap.on are described in the weapon's description, on page 31. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBE¥ ¥ NlN ARMOR A rmor offers some protection against glancing blaster bolts and weapon strikes. and also from area-effect weapons like frag grenades. ARMOR CHARACTERISTICS Whether it's a blast helmet or a vest, each kind of armor has the following characteristics in common. DEFENSE The armor's defense adds Setback dice . directly to the attacker's pool. This reflects the armor's ability to deflect damage away from the user's body. SOAK Soak is added to the target's Brawn and subtracted from any incoming damage suffered. TABLE5-2: ARMOR Type á Defense I Soak I Price1 ------~ Heavy 0 1 50Clothing Padded 0 2 500Armor Armored I 1 1000Clothing Heavy Battle 1 2 5000Armor I ARMOR IYPES Below is a list of the some of the most common armor types found throughout the galaxy. HEAVY CLOTHING A good leather jacket or thick woolen cloak won't stop much damage, but it can misdirect an occasional knife blade or blaster bolt away from the wearer's flesh. PADDED ARMOR Padded armor is woven with tough, energy-resistant fibers. It tends to absorb and resist some of the power of a blaster bolt. although it often proves little use against a solid hit. ARMORED CLOTHING This category of armor covers light vests, jackets. or pants plat.ed with plastoid or ceramic pads. This armor type is very light but covers the most important vital organs. An AverageC..) Perception check detects that a person's clothing is plated. HEAVY BATTLE ARMOR Certain heavy stormtroopers, bounty hunters, and even droids are fitted with heavy armor. Heavy battle armor can be sealed. or it can take the form of a heavy vest and blast helmet. GEAR I t might not be as exciting as a blaster, but basic equipment is often the foundation for success. COMLINK Comlinks allow for ranged audio communication between two parties. Some models are built into helmets and armor segments. Most operate on a standard set of frequencies that can be adjusted as desired to elude detection. ELECTROBINOCULARS Electrobinoculars allow the user to see normally in low light or extremely bright conditions, and can magnify targets up to ten kilometers away. When using electrobinoculars, char.acters remove up to one Setback die . imposed due to long range or poor light. MACROBINOCULARS Macrobinoculars use rugged imaging systems to magnify far-off objects for their users. When using macrobinocu.lars, characters may also remove up to one Setback die . imposed due to long range. GENERAL PURPOSE SCANNER Scanners indicate the nearby presence of life forms, heat fonts, radiation sources, acoustic emissions, or any combina.tion thereof. The motion sensing operates up to a distance of half a kilometer, while the remaining systems can detect targets up to a kilometer and a half away. HAND SCANNER "Hand scanner" is a catchall designation for a wide variety of handheld scanning devices designed to run specific-purpose scans, checking for atmospheric contaminants, poisons, vermin, or (in the case of mechanics) micro-fractures or stress points. EMERGENCY MEDPAC Emergency medpacs allow for basic first aid in the field. A character using an emergency medpac can attempt to heal others using Medicine checks without penalty, as detailed on page 23. THE RIGHT TOOLS FDR THE JOB the AGE OF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME, eachIn unique piece of gear does not always provide a unique bonus to gameplay mechanics. This is due to the narrative nature of the system. Instead, many pieces of gear aid the user in difficult tasks or allow them to perform tasks that would have been impossible otherwise. The GM and player can agree to add one Boost die . to the dice pool for a given action when a character uses a beneficial (and relevant) piece of gear or equipment. TABLE5-3: GEAR ' Item Price ' .Com link 25 Electrobinoculars 250 Macrobinoculars 75 General Purpose Scanner 500 . Hand Scanner 100 .EmergencyMedpac 100 Medpac 400 Stimpack 25 Disguise Kit 100 Electronic Lock Breaker 1,000 Binders 25 RestrainingBolt 35 Ration Pack 5 Breath Mask 25 Space Suit 100 Backpack 50 Datapad 75 Glow Rod 10 Extra Reloads/Power Packs 25 Tool Kit 350 EmergencyRepair Patch 25 MEDPAC This medpac allows the user to perform relatively complicat.ed medical procedures in the field. It allows characters to at.tempt to heal others using Medicine checks without penalty as described on page 23, and additionally grants a Boost die Don all attempts. In addition, the internal stim storage grants the user three stimpacks per day. STIMPACK Stimpacks are auto-injection tubes filled with medicine. bacta, and painkillers. It takes a maneuver for a character to inject a stimpack: this can affect that character or an engaged ally. A stimpack is a one-use item and its effects are described on page 20. DISGUISE KIT Disguise kits contain the means to make an individual look different than his or her normal self, with makeup, false hair.pieces, iris chromatics, and even falseprint skins and DNA cloaks in advanced kits. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF' REBFJ I tON ¥ ODDS AND SUNDRIES T here are plenty of pieces of gear that characters are likely to carry that are too mundane or inex.pensive to track on their character sheets. Writing implements. pocket knives, street clothing, snacks, mementos: all of these things and more are details that can embellish a character. but are not impor.tant enough to track in a meticulous fashion. Player Characters can assume that they have any number of miscellaneous sundries on them, depending on what they feel their characters would actually carry. ELECTRONIC LOCK BREAKER Electronic lock breakers are automatic anti-security slicing systems that can hack through most standard electronic door locks. BINDERS Binder restraints are designed to keep a conscious prisoner subdued and manageable. Breaking free of binders is often a matter of either sheer brawn or impressive agility, and so escaping a set of binders requires a Daunting C. . . .} Athletics or Coordination check. RESTRAINING BOLTS Restraining bolts serve the same function on droids as bind.ers do on other sentients. A Player Character droid may make a Daunting (. . . .J Discipline check to overcome the effects of a restraining bolt and act normally when the bolt is applied. The droid may retry the test at the GM's discretion. RATION PACKS Bland and flavorless. ration packs can be easily reconsti.tuted into a full serving through built-in heat infusers and limited hydration. BREATH MASKS AND RESPIRATORS Nol all planets and environments are hospitable to all spe.cies, and thus many travellers require mechanical aids to help them breathe outside of their native habitats. Some examples these devices include simple nose plugs, filtration masks, and aquatic rebreathers for activity underwater. SPACE SUIT Given that most travel occurs in space. having a sealed suit on hand just in case of small concerns such as compromised hull integrity is usually a good idea. Most suits come with repair packs to seal small tears or gasket leaks. BACKPACK A backpack can serve many important functions. especially for carrying survival gear (or even smaller allies and droids). DATAPAD Datapads are common on most technologically civilized plan.ets, and are used to record. store, display, and organize almost any kind of data, from basic text to holographic recordings. GLOW ROD A glow rod is a hand held light source that illuminates an area in a directional beam. EXTRA RELOADS/POWER PACKS Extra reloads help characters mitigate an "out of ammo" De.spair@ result with a ranged weapon. By spending a maneu.ver. they may reload their weapons and get back in the fight. TOOL KIT There is little a skilled mechanic cannot fix with a well-stocked tool kit, given adequate time to conduct the repairs. Tool kits also allow engineers and other technicians to perform Mechanics checks without penalty and also to make Mechan.ics checks to "heal" droids (see page 23). EMERGENCY REPAIR PATCH Emergency repair patches are one-use items that mechanics can use on droids to heal wounds. It takes an action for a character to use an emergency repair patch on an engaged ally (or itself, in the case of a droid), and the patch functions in the same manner as a stimpack (see page 20). except that it only affects droid characters. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF R.EBELUON T his chapter discusses special rules associated with starships and other vehicles common to the Star Wars universe. SHIP AND VEHICLE CHARACTERISTICS The seven following characteristics make up the bulk of im.portant mechanical information about starships and vehicles. ¥ Handling: The measure of a ship or vehicle's agility and how well it responds to its pilot. ¥ Speed: A ship or vehicle's raw speed and how quickly 1t accelerates. ¥ Silhouette: An abstraction of the general size of a ship or vehicle. ¥ Hull Trauma Threshold: A reflection of the sturdiness of a ship or vehicle's construction and its ability to sus.tain damage and keep operating. ¥ System Strain Threshold: The limit to which a ship or vehicle can be pushed or jostled about before impor.tant systems overload or shut down. ¥ ¥ D ¥ Defense: A ship's first line of defense against attack and accident. Typically representative of a ship's ray and particle shields. defense also represents any fac.tors. technological or otherwise, that prevent damage from reaching a vehicle's armor. ¥ Armor: The measure of a ship or vehicle's armor. simi.lar to soak on the personal scale. STARSHIPS,VEHICLES,AND SCALE S tarships and vehicles operate on a different scale, referred to as the starship scale. When dealing with a starship or vehicle's weapons, armor, and hull trauma threshold, every point is equal to ten points of the equivalent characteristic in personal scale. Note that to avoid the significant chance of weapons such as blaster pistols dealing Critical Hits to heav.ily armored starships. the damage must exceed a vehicle's armor before it can inflict a Critical Hit. HANDLING A ship or vehicle's han.dling characteristic dic.tates the number of Boost dice D or Set.back dice . added to a player's dice pool when performing a Pi.loting check. Baseline handling is 0. Pilots add Setbackdice . equal to a vessel's negative han.dling value or Boost dice D equal to a ship or vehicle's positive handling value. SPEED A ship or vehicle's speed character.istic dictates how quickly an object is capable of moving relative to its environ.ment. and what maneuvers are available to its pilot. Speed, as listed, is a "maximum" value. A pilot can always choose to go slower than his maximum speed. Speed 0 indicates a stationary ship or vehicle, while higher values indicate higher rates of speed. SILHOUETTE Silhouette is an abstract number used to describe a ship or vehicle's size and mass relative to other ships and vehicles. Silhouette is used to calculate the difficulty of attacking tar.gets of different sizes. Silhouette values range from O to 10. where O is smaller than a human (such as a specific starship component. a Jawa, or an astromech droid). 1 represents the size of an adult human, most starfighters and light freighters are 3-4, and silhouette 10 is a truly massive warship. HULL TRAUMA THRESHOLD Like the wound threshold of a Player Character, a vessel's hull trauma threshold represents the amount of physi.cal damage that ship or vehicle can take before it is either crippled or destroyed. Hull trauma threshold is measured in starship scale, meaning that one point of hull trauma is equivalent to ten wounds for an individual. When a ship suffers damage in excess of its armor. that damage is suffered as hull trauma. When hull trauma ex.ceeds a ship or vehicle's hull trauma threshold. the ship is disabled. NPC vessels of little importance are simply de.stroyed, but PC-crewed vessels or ships of importance to the plot shut down and suffer a Critical Hit from Table 6-4: Starship and Vehicle Critical Hits on page 41. SYSTEM STRAIN THRESHOLD System strain works the same way as strain suffered by char.acters. A vehicle that suffers strain in excess of its system strain threshold suffers a shutdown of nearly all ship systems. In game terms. when a ship or vehicle exceeds its system strain threshold. its speed drops to O during the following round. The majority of its systems (such as engines, weap.ons. and shields) cease operating as well. This means it cannot move, its weapons cannot shoot, and its defense drops to 0. Ships and vehicles do recover from system strain slowly over time. For every full day a during which a vessel avoids taking system strain, it reduces its total system strain by one. One difference between system strain and regular strain is that system strain cannot be recovered by spending Advantaget). It can be restored through the Damage Con.trol action (see page 41) or over time, as described above. DEFENSE Defense reflects a ship or vehicle's ability to completely deflect or reduce the damage of incoming attacks and colli.sions through use of deflector shields or other, more esoteric technologies. This is a crucial protective system, and it is the first line of defense for the majority of space-going vessels (and even some ground vehicles). In game terms. each point of defense adds one Setback die . to any incoming attack check made against a ship or vehicle. ARMOR A starship's second line of defense, and the only protection available to the majority of ground vehicles. armor soaks up damage from attacks and impacts that are able to penetrate a vessel's defense. Much like personal body armor worn by Player Characters, a ship or vehicle's armor soaks a number of damage points equal to its rating. As it is based on star.ship scale, one point of a ship's armor is equivalent to ten points of soak on a personal scale. STARSHIP AND VEHICLE WEAPONS Starships, especially those in service with the Rebellion or Empire, are usually armed. While starships and vehicles are extremely varied, their weapon systems are comparatively uniform. These systems are described on page 39. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBE¥ 1:ON In the AGE oF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME, all ship or vehicle.¥ Critical Rating: This number indicates the amount of class weapons sha,e a number of common characteristics: AdvantagetJ, required to trigger a Critical Hit for a given weapon. If enough Advantage tJ, is generated ¥ Range:This is the range band within which the weapon and a Critical Hit is triggered, see page 42. is most effective. Starship and vehicle weapons cannot be fired at targets farther away than their range. ¥ Special Qualities: Many weapons. such as ion can.nons. have additional special qualities that affect their ¥ Damage:This number reflects the base damage that performance. Descriptions of these special effects are the mounted weapon inflicts on its target on a successful found on page 32. attack. For every net Success~ generated during the attack. the attacker adds + 1 damage to the base rating. Each individual vehicle entry has its weapon systems ¥ clearly defined and described. . STARSHIP AND VEHICLE COMBAT C ombat engagements between starships and vehicles play Pilot Only maneuver. A starship or vehicle with a silhouette an important role in the Star Wars universe, and can help to of 5 or greater can only ever benefit from one Pilot Only set the tone over the course of a campaign. maneuver in a round, period. ACCELERATE/DECELERATECOMBAT OVERVIEW Pilot Only: Yes. Silhouette:Any. Speed:Any. Starship and vehicle combat in the Star Wars: AGE OF REBELá The pilot may increase or decrease the ship or vehicle's cur.uoN BEGINNER GAME follows the same basic order and rules rent speed by one, to a minimum of zero or a maximum of as those detailed in ChapterII: Combat.Some special rules the ship's maximum speed rating. and exceptions are addressed below. FLY/DRIVE Note that there are a variety of actions and maneuvers avail.Pilot Only: Yes. Silhouette:Any. Speed:Any.able to the crew of a starship or vehicle that aren't available in This starship maneuver reflects the simple act of moving the personal-scale combat. Also note that no matter how many ship or vehicle closer to or farther away from something. crew are aboard a given starship or vehicle, the ship itself can Moving between one range band and the next always takes only perform maneuvers (and certain actions) during the pi.2 maneuvers regardless of speed, with the following excep.lot's turn. Other crewmembers can still perform actions and tions detailed below: maneuversappropriate to their crew station during their turn. ¥ SpeedO:The vehicle is not moving and cannot use this maneuver until it accelerates. NARRATIVE SPACE COMBAT ¥ Speed 1: One maneuver to move within close range of Space combat is quite abstracted. As starships are con.a target or object. or two maneuvers to move from close stantly moving and striving with one another for the upper to short range or from short range to close range. hand, it would be nearly impossible to map out every move a starfighter or starship makes. Instead, the Game Master and ¥ Speed 2-4: One starship maneuver to move within close players describe the actions the characters and NPCs take, range of a target or object. to move from close to short embellish them with narrative flair, and then make their skill range, or from short to close range. Two starship maneuvers checks to resolve the actions to move from close to medium or medium to close range. ¥ Speed 5-6: One starship maneuver to move within close MANEUVERS range of a target or object, to move from close to medium range, or from medium to close range. Two starship ma.Characters may perform either personal maneuvers as de.neuvers to move from close to long or long to close range. scribed in Chapter II beginning on page 1 3 (as common sense allows) or special starship maneuvers as described here. PLANETARY RAN6E BANDS SCALE When ships or vehicles are in encounters, they should always track their current speed. A ship might be operating ike personal combat, starship and vehicle combat at any speed from zero to its maximum. However, characters uses broad and abstract distance measurements, L must spend maneuvers to accelerate or decelerate. referred to as planetary scale range bands. Planetary scale range bands follow the same rules as regularA starship or vehicle with a silhouette 1-4 can benefit range bands found on page 1 6. The only differ.from one Pilot Only maneuver in a round, and can benefit ences are that planetary scale range bands operate from a second Pilot Only maneuver if it suffers 2 system on a much larger scale. and that the engaged range strain. Note that the pilot must still suffer 2 personal strain band is replaced with a new range band called "close." or downgrade his action to a maneuver to perform a second Differencein Silhouette __I Base Difficulty Firing vessel has the same silhouette as target, or the Average C. .)silhouette is 1 point larger or smaller than Lhe target. Firing vessel has a silhouette 2 or more points smaller than the target Easy(.)vessel Firing vessel has a silhouette 2 Hard C...Jpoints larger than the target ship. 7 Firing vessel has a silhouette 3 or more points larger than the target Daunting (. . . .J vessel. TABLE 6-2: SPEED ADVANTAGEDIFFICULTY TABLE6-1: SILHOUETTE COMPARISON GunneryCheckDifferencein Speed  Difficulty  Initialing ship 1s traveling at the same speed as the target ship  Average (. .)  Initiating ship's speed 1s at least one higher than target ship's speed.  Easy(.)  ln1Liat1ngship's speed is one lower than target ship's speed  Hard C...J  Initiating ship's speed is two or more lower than target ship's speed.  Daunting C....J  _j  EVASIVE MANEUVERS  Pilot Only: Yes.  Silhouette: 1-4.  Speed: 3 +.  Executing Evasive Maneuvers upgrades the difficulty of the dice pool once for all attacks made against the ship until the end of the pilot's next turn. Executing Evasive Maneuvers likewise upgrades the difficulty of the dice pool once for all attacks made by the ship until the end of the pilot's next turn. Evasive Maneuvers can only be undertaken by ships or vehicles of silhouette 4 or smaller. STAY ON TARGET Pilot Only: Yes. Silhouette: 1-4. Speed: 3 +. Until the end of the pilot's next turn, all combat checks from the vehicle or vessel executing this maneuver upgrade the Ability dice . in their pool once. Additionally, any combat check made targeting a ship executing this starship maneu.ver upgrades the Ability dice . in their pool once until the end of the pilot's next round. This starship maneuver is restricted to vessels of silhouette 4 or smaller. PUNCH IT Pilot Only: Yes. Silhouette: 1-4. Speed: Any. This maneuver allows a ship or vehicle to accelerate immediately to its maximum speed from any other speed When executing this starship maneuver, the ship or vehicle suffers one point of system strain for every point of speed between the ship's current speed and its maximum speed. Characters can also use this action to repair Critical Hits ACTIONS the ship is suffering from. The difficulty of repairing a Critical Hit is listed on Table 6-4: Starship and Vehicle Critical Characters may perform a number of special starship actions Hits on page 41. Checks to repair Critical Hits can be at.as described here. Some of these actions are labeled as Pi.tempted multiple times, until the Critical Hit is repaired. lot Only actions. A starship or vehicle can benefit from only one Pilot Only action per round, no matter how many crew.TABLE 6-3: DAMAGE CONTROLDIFFICULTY members are aboard the craft. ITotal Strain Total Hull Trauma DifficultyRemember, any of the combat actions listed on page 14 can also be performed in combats involving ships or System strain Hull trauma less than ¥less than half vehicles (within the bounds of common sense, of course). half vehicle's hull trauma Easy .vehicle's system thresholdstrain threshold. .GAIN THE ADVANTAGE Pilot Only: Yes. Silhouette: 1-4. Speed:4 + System strain Hull trauma equal to equal to half AverageThis action allows a pilot to gain the upper hand against a half vehicle's hull trauma vehicleás system single opponent and to position the ship for a better attack threshold. ..strain threshold. during the following round. To execute this starship action, the pilot makes a Piloting check. the difficulty of which is deter.System strain Hull trauma exceeds mined by the relative speeds of the ships or vehicles involved in exceeds half half vehicle's hull trauma Hard vehicle's system the attack. These difficulties are outlined in Table 6-2: Speed threshold. ...strain threshold. Advantage Difficulty. If the check succeeds. the pilot ignores all penalties imposed by the Evasive Maneuvers starship SyStem strain Hull trauma exceeds maneuver (for both ships) until the end of the following round. exceeds vehicle's vehicle's hull trauma Daunting If he fails his test, no advantage is gained. system strain __ ______ __,_.__th_r_es_h_o_id l . . . . threshold Once the advantage has been gained, the opponent may attempt to cancel out the advantage by using Gain the PERFORMING COMBAT CHECKS WITH VEHICLEAdvantage. This works as described earlier, but the check is one step more difficult. WEAPONS Pilot Only: No. Silhouette:Any. Speed:Any.DAMAGE CONTROL This action is the same action as the Perform a Combat Pilot Only: No. Silhouette:Any. Speed:Any. Check action on page 14. However, there are some minor Using this action. any character who makes a successful differences as to how it is implemented, because of the dif.Mechanics check recovers one point of system strain or hull ferences between vehicles and individuals. The differences trauma for the ship per Success '>;f.The difficulty of the Me.are noted below. chanics check is determined by the strain or hull trauma the Each starship or vehicle weapon can only be fired a maximum ship is currently suffering. of once per round unless a rule specifically allows otherwise. Damage Control can be attempted as many times as ¥ Unless noted, all attacks with vehicle-mounted weapons needed to reduce a ship's system strain to zero. use the Gunnery skill. In general, characters can only attempt one Damage ¥ The difficulty of an attack is not based on range. It isControl check per source of hull trauma. The GM is the calculated by comparing the respective silhouettes of final arbitrator as to whether a PC can attempt repairs of hull the attacker and defender (see page 40). trauma at all. ¥ A Critical Hit on a starship follows different rules. which are noted on page 42. TABLE6-4: STARSHIPANO VEHICLE CRITICALHITS Numberof Critical Hits Difficultyto Repair . Effects First Critical Hit Easy . Immediately suffer 2 system strain No ongoing effect jEngine damaged. Maximum speed reduced by 1 and Second Critical Hit Average .. handling reduced by 1. Third Critical Hit Hard ... Shields disabled Defense reduced to 0 One starship component (such as a weapon. or the ship's Fourth and subsequent Critical Hits Hard ... hyperdrive) of the GM's choice disabled until repaired BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK Ac:E OF REBELUON STELLAR PHENOMENA AND TER F rom time to time, characters might pilot vehicles through difficult terrain, asteroid fields, or other hazards. When they do so, they must make Piloting checks to avoid collisions. The difficulty of a Piloting check is equal to the vehicle or starship's current speed or half its silhouette (rounding up). whichever is higher. The lower of the two values indicates how many times the difficulty of the check is upgraded. Failing these checks does not normally mean the ship or vehicle crashes (although failing and generating one Despair@ may well result in a crash). Instead, it means that the pilot has been unsuccessful in navigating through the situation. NAVIGATION HAZARDS Terrestrial and celestial conditions can also add Setback dice . to other maneuvers and actions that require a Piloting check, as determined by the GM. COLLISIONS A vehicle that collides with another vehicle or a solid object suffers an automatic Critical Hit. INTERSTELLAR T I nterstellar travel is a complex and hazardous process. In short. a ship with a functioning hyperdrive can go anywhere the plot allows and arrive at any time the plot requires. Star.ships without functioning hyperdrives can only travel within the same star system, as they cannot go faster than light speed. SU BLIGHT TRAVEL Sublight travel happens in realspace while a ship is running under sublight engines. Most starships are capable of travel.ing from a planet's surface to orbit under their own power in mere minutes. Travel between planets can take hours or days. CRITICAL HITS Critical Hits represent damage to essential ship systems, and are similar to Critical Injuries suffered by Player Characters. As with personal scale Critical Injuries. if the victim of the Critical Hit is a vehicle of no particular importance (such as if its pilot is a minion). then it is destroyed. Otherwise, for each Criti.cal Hit inflicted upon the vehicle. it suffers the effects noted in Table 6-4: Starship and Vehicle Critical Hits on page 41 . Once a ship or vehicle suffers a Critical Hit, it counts as suf.fering that Critical Hit until it is repaired. This status counts evenif the effects of the Critical Hit only last a single round. REPAIRING HULL TRAUMA The effects of the Damage Control action can only repair so much. Proper repairs to a starship's hull require suitable facilities, money, and time. Once a ship is in a slip or drydock for repairs, each point of hull trauma restored costs roughly 500 credits. The final cost for repairs is left to the Game Master's discretion. The time required is also variable. and is left to the Game Mas.ter's discretion. A good rule of thumb is that light damage, up to a quarter of a ship's total hull threshold. should take an amount of time measured in days, while any damage over that takes weeks or even months to repair. depending on the severity of the damage. YEL HYPERSPACE TRAVEL While sublight travel is how ships move between the planets of a single star system, hyperspace travel is how they travel between the stars themselves. Essentially another dimen.sion accessed through the fantastic technology of the hyper.drive, hyperspace allows starships to travel at many times the speed of light. Navigating even the most well-documented hyperspace route entails a raft of incredibly complex calculations, which are largely handled by a ship's navicomputer. Although the navicomputer does the bulk of the work. a ship's astroga.tor still needs to enter coordinates and double check the computer's final calculations. Under ideal conditions, this requires an Easy(.) Astrogation check. The GM can modify this to reflect the circumstances under which the check is made. Once a ship is actually in hyperspace, there is little for the crew and passengers to do but sit back and enjoy the ride. STARSHIP AND VEHICLE PROFILES I n addition to the vehicle profiles presented in the BEGINNERTá4A LAMBDA-CLASS LONG RANGE SHUTTLE GAMEadventure. several common craft are described here. The T-4A Lambda-classshuttle is a passenger craft engineered TIE/LN STARFIGHTER The TIE/In starfighter is a small, nimble craft, easily destroyed by Rebel pilots but even more easily manufactured to meet the Imperial Navy's demands. A single TIE/In is hardly a match for a Rebel starfighter flown by a veteran pilot-but TIE pilots rarely fly alone, instead relying on swarm tactics to overcome enemies with superior vessels. @]lo'r'i'~ 1/ULL TRAUMA  2  )  6  \  B  )  Hull Type/Class: Starfighter/TIE Series. Manufacturer: Sienar Fleet Systems. Hyperdrive:None. Navicomputer:None. Ship's Complement: One pilot. Passenger Capacity: 0. Consumables:Two days. Cost:50,000 credits. Weapons: Forward-mounted medium laser cannons (Dam.age 6: Critical 3: Range [Close]; Linked 1 ). TIE/IN INTERCEPTOR Referred to as "fast movers" or "squints" by many Alliance fighter pilots, the Imperial Navy's TIE/in is one of the most feared fightercraft in the Empire's arsenal. The TIE Intercep.tor is faster, more agile, and more heavily armed than its hangar mates. and so it can make a deadly threat to any Rebel squadron in the hands of a capable pilot. ARMOR ~ ~¥,\i~ 0 EJ C 6 J -C1a--, Hull Type/Class: Starfighter/TIE Series. Manufacturer: Sienar Fleet Systems. Hyperdrive:None. Navicomputer:None. Ship's Complement: One pilot. Passenger Capacity: 0. Encumbrance Capacity: 4. Consumables:Two days. Cost/Rarity:75,000 credits. Weapons:Wingtip-mounted medium laser cannons (Damage 6; Critical 3; Range [Close]; Linked 3). AT-ST AND 74-ZB SPEEDER BIKE G GAMEMs should note that the BEGINNER adven.ture profiles for vehicles (the AT-ST, 7 4-Zb, and bunker) omit the Critical rating from all weapons. These vehiclesá weapons have Critical ratings of 3. by Sienar Fleet Systems and Cygnus Spaceworks. It is used by the Galactic Empire to transport VIPs, supplies. troops, and oth.er critical cargo. The Nilos,which the PCs acquired upon con.quering Whisper Base (provided they did not destroy it during the base assault) is one example of a Lambda-classshuttle. It is relatively well-maintained, although its transponder has been . disabled to allow it to fly covert missions for Moff Dardano. tfil~¥:rtEC ,4 SYSTEfS,RA.V<25 1 15 Hull Type/Class: Shuttle/Lambda. Manufacturer:Sienar Fleet Systems and Cygnus Spaceworks. Hyperdrive:Yes. Navicomputer:Yes. Ship's Complement: One pilot, one co-pilot, one navigator, one gunner, one comms officer, and one engineer. Passenger Capacity: 20. Consumables:Two months. Cost: 140,000 credits. Weapons:Forward-mounted light blaster cannons (Damage 4; Critical 4: Range [Close!: Linked 1 ). Forward-mounted twin light laser cannons (Damage 5; Critical 3; Range [Close!: Linked 1 ). Aft retractable twin light blaster cannons (Damage 4; Criti.cal 4: Range [Close!: Linked 1 ). T-65B 11X-WING" MULTI-ROLE STARFIGHTER While the space superiority philosophy of the Galactic Em.pire relies on simply putting as many starfighters into the skies as possible, the Rebel Alliance puts a particular focus on acquiring craft that give its few experienced pilots every advantage (and keep them alive). The X-wing has shields and a hyperdrive, and it can be supported by an Astromech droid, all factors that make it an ideal fighter for a Rebel ace. 8J(;i¥itiT)C ,3 1 ¥ C 1D ) C 1D ) Hull Type/Class: Starfighter/T-65B X-wing. Manufacturer: lncom Corporation. Hyperdrive:Yes. Navicomputer:None-Astromech Droid Socket. Ship's Complement: One pilot. one astromech droid. Passenger Capacity: 0. Consumables:One week. Cost: 120,000 credits. Weapons: S-foil-mounted medium laser cannons (Damage 6; Critical 3; Range [Close]; Linked 3). Forward-mounted proton torpedo launchers (Damage 8; Critical 2; Range [Short!: Blast 6, Breach 6, Limited Ammo 6, Linked 1 ). BEGINNER RULEBOOKGAME ACE OF PERO I ION The galaxy is an almost incomprehensibly vast place, with more variety than any one being can hope to experience and appreciate during a lifetime. There are thousands upon thousands of inhabitable worlds, filled with hundreds or thou.sands of intelligent species of every imaginable shape and size. The Galactic Civil War has touched almost all of these places, though there are some beyond the vast ripples of its influence. Still, if the PCs have arrived in a new place, they have likely gone there to represent the interests of the Rebel Alliance. As such, they will face foes, obstacles. and adversar.ies. be they of a military, social. or intellectual nature. There are three different levels of opponents that charac.Lers will likely encounter, which pose different levels of threat posed to the average group of Rebel agents. Although some vanauon is to be expected. the broad categories are called minions, rivals. and nemeses. MINIONS Minions are the most common NPCs encountered in the Star Wars universe. These are nameless individuals who provide muscle to flesh out encounters. Their only real threat is in num.bers, as a lone minion cannot stand toe-to-toe with a PC for long. D Minions have several unique rules that reflect their status as disposable adversaries. ¥ Minionsd9 not suffer strain. Anything that would inflict strain on a minion inflicts wounds instead. They also cannot voluntarily suffer strain. ¥ Minions do not possess skills. They can compensate for this by operating as a group. A minion's profile lists several skills in which it gains ranks when acting as part of a group. ¥ Minions can fight as a group. Minions are only deployed in groups of the same type. When deployed in a group, the minions operate in concert and share a single total of wounds (their individual wounds combined). Damage inflicted to any member of the unit is deducted from the total, with individual members being eliminated as their share of that wound total is exceeded. For example. a unit of five minions (each with five wounds individually) would have a pool of 25 wounds. When the total wounds the unit suffers exceeds 5 wounds, one member of the unit is eliminated. When characters attack a group, they attack the group as a whole. not an individual. Likewise. minions make one attack per group, not per 1ndiv1dual. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK AGE OF REBEUJON However. working as a group allows minions to mitigate their lack of skills. When operating as a group, the min.ions treat each member beyond the first as one skill rank for certain skill checks noted in their profile. Thus. a group of four Imperial Navy troopers would count as having three ranks (for the three additional troopers after the first) in any relevant checks the group was called on to make. This only applies to checks involving the skills listed in the minion profiles. ¥ Minions are killed by Critical Injuries. If a minion suffers a Critical Injury, 1t is killed outright (or incapacitated. at the GM's discretion). If a group of minions suffers a Critical Injury, it suffers one minion's worth of wounds. RIVALS Rivals are more dangerous than minions. but still inferior to most Player Characters. Rivals follow most of the same rules as Player Characters do, with the following exceptions. ADVERSARY LIST I n addition to the profiles found in the BEGINNER GAME introductory adventure. the GM can use the following list of foes in subsequent AGE OF REBELLION BEGINNER GAME sessions. IMPERIAL ARMY TROOPER (MINION] Though the stormtroopers are the Empire's most feared soldiers, the bulk of its troops are light infantry. These sol.diers are used en masse in major engagements. and are also deployed in smaller numbers to pacify minor rebellions and uprisings, control hostile populations, and generally oppress sentients across the galaxy in the name of the Emperor. There is a considerable Imperial Army presence on Onderon. although it is mostly confined to the capital city of lziz and the surrounding area, as the deep jungles are con.sidered too dangerous (and contain relatively little of value to offset the risks). The PCs might encounter Imperial Army troopers if they venture into lziz or otherwise make their way into Imperial planetary holdings. 1Y TIIRESIIDLO 3 5 Skills (group only): Discipline. Ranged (Heavy). Ranged (Light). Talents: None. Abilities: None. Equipment: Blaster rifle (Ranged !Heavy]; Damage 9: Criti.cal 3; Range !Long]; Stun setting), 2 frag grenades (Ranged !Light]: Damage 8; Critical 4: Range !Short!: Blast 6, Limited Ammo 1). trooper uniform and helmet ( + 1 soak). ¥ Rivals suffer Critical Injuries normally. However, when a rival exceeds his wound threshold. the rival can be killed outright (instead of incapacitated) at the GM's discretion. ¥ Rivals do not suffer strain. When a rival would suffer strain, the rival suffers an equivalent number of wounds instead. Rivals can, however. use abilities or invoke effects that would cause them to suffer strain: this sim.ply causes them to suffer wounds instead. ¥NEMESES .The nemesis is the dark reflection of the Player Character. A nemesis is a PC's equal or superior in almost every way; this is necessary to ensure that such important foes are able to pose a threat to an entire party. Nemeses frequently pos.sess a number of talents. high characteristics. and skills, and their weaponry and armor can endanger eventhe strongest parties. Nemeses suffer strain and wounds normally and do not have any exceptions governing their operations. IMPERIAL ARMY OFFICER (RIVAL] The Imperial Army has many officers. who maintain order within the ranks, handle bureaucratic tasks. and generally keep the troops of the line in order. These officers are critical to the continued functioning of the Imperial Army, and are thus often targeted by Rebel agents hoping to keep their enemies off balance or sow chaos in the ranks of the Empire. Given their leadership positions. Imperial Army Officers also frequently possess very important information about troop movements, strategic positions. and other high-level intelligence about the battlefields on which the Empire and the Rebellion clash. The PCs might encounter an officer on the battlefield, or they might be sent specifically to steal crucial information from one of these commanders to turn the tide of a critical battle. (~ SOAK VALUE 4 15 Skills:Discipline 3. Knowledge 2. Ranged (Light) 2. Vigilance 2. Talents:Adversary1 (upgrade difficulty of all combat checks against this target once). Abilities: Tactical Direction (may perform a maneuver to di.rect one Imperial Army minion group within medium range. The group may perform an immediate free maneuver or add 1 Boost die D to its next check). Overwhelming Fire (may perform a maneuver to direct one Imperial Army minion group within medium range. The group may perform an im.mediate free combat check action). Equipment: Blaster pistol (Ranged IL1ghtJ: Damage 6; Criti.cal 3: Range !Medium]: Stun setting). officer uniform ( + 1 soak). long range comlink. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK AGE OF REBELUON IMPERIAL STORMTROOPER SERGEANT [RIVAL] Imperial stormtroopers are deadly foes. their rigid disci.pline making them formidable but also vulnerable to the unconventional tactics many Rebel agents use. As such, the Empire's most iconic shock troops are far deadlier when under the command of a competent squad leader. Sergeants typically lead groups of eight, and a veteran commander is an asset to any squad of stormtroopers he leads. BRAl'IN SOAK VALUE 5 15 Skills: Athletics 2, Discipline 2, Leadership 3, Melee 2, Ranged (Heavy) 2, Ranged (Light) 2, Resilience 2, Vigilance 2. Talents:Adversary 1 (upgrade the difficulty of all combat checks against this target once). Abilities: Tactical Direction (may spend a maneuver to di.rect one stormtrooper minion group within medium range. The group may make an immediate free maneuver or adds 1 Boost die D to its next check). Equipment:Heavy blaster rifle (Ranged [Heavy]; Damage 1 O; Critical 3, Range [Long]; Auto-fire. Cumbersome 3). vibroknife (Melee; Damage 4; Critical 2: Range [Engaged]: Pierce 2). 3 frag grenades (Ranged [Light]; Damage 8; Critical 4: Range [Short]: Blast 6, Limited Ammo 1). stormtrooper armor ( +2 soak). utility belt, extra reloads. IMPERIAL MOFF [NEMESIS] Imperial Moffs are bureaucrats and political leaders respon.sible for managing vast regions of space, each one tasked with maintaining the totalitarian rule of the Galactic Empire with an iron fist. Of course. as most Moffs are incredibly ambitious, there can be a great deal of friction between Moffs and other individuals of note within the Imperial hi.erarchy. Moffs compete with generals, admirals, and other Moffs for power and influence in a mercurial game of grand politics. The winners seize incredible power for themselves, and the losers fall into disfavor or die. Moff Dardano. the man responsible for building Whisper Base to spy on his long-time rival Admiral Corlen, is a dan.gerous, resourceful individual the PCs have now angered. Though he cannot order Imperial troops to eliminate them directly, Moff Dardano might find other, less conventional means to try to get his listening post back ... Ill!!!!!!'.2 13 16 Skills:Charm 3, Coercion 4, Cool 3, Deception 4, Discipline 3, Knowledge 4, Leadership 4, Ranged (Light) 2. Streetwise 2, Vigilance 2. Talents:Adversary 1 (upgrade difficulty of all combat checks against this target once). Plausible Deniability 4 (remove 4 Set.backdice .... from all Coercion and Deception checks). Supreme Inspiring Rhetoric (as a maneuver, may make an Average[. .1 Leadership check. Each Success symbol ~ removes 1 strain or wound from one ally in short range. Each Advantage symbol t> removes an additional strain or wound from an affected ally. All affected allies add a Boost die D to all checks for four rounds). Abilities:Imperial Valor (may perform a maneuver to cause all ranged attacks targeting the Moff to instead hit one ally or helpless enemy he is engaged with until the beginning of his next turn). Equipment:Blaster pistol (Ranged [Light]; Damage 6: Criti.cal 3; Range [Medium]; Stun setting). JOURNEYMAN BOUNTY HUNTER [RIVAL] Though the Empire crushes its foes with vast armies, elite strike forces, and the overwhelming might of its navy, many Imperial officers are not above hiring outside assistance. The Empire frequently places bounties upon known Rebel agents, and many bounty hunters from across the galaxy are happy to serve anyone who pays so handsomely for their services. Individual officers engaged in the internal intrigue of the Em.pire also use bounty hunters and other mercenaries for partic.ularly clandestine jobs they cannot reveal to their underlings. Moff Darda no might well send bounty hunters to try to re.claim Whisper Base, since he cannot openly admit to having lost a base that never should have existed in the first place. r;,~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ SOAK V,1LU[ IY THRESHOLD 5 13 Skills:Brawl 1 , Coercion 1, Coordination 1, Ranged (Heavy) 1, Ranged (Light) 1 . Survival 2, Vigilance I. Talents:Lethal Blows 1 (the first Critical Injury inflicted by Journeyman Bounty Hunter per day counts as 2 Critical In.juries to the target). Abilities: None. Equipment:Heavy blaster pistol (Ranged [Light]; Damage 7; Critical 3: Range [Medium]: Stun setting). disruptor rifle (Ranged [Heavy]: Damage I 0: Critical 2; Range [Long]; Cumbersome 2. Pierce 5) laminate armor (+2 soak). SMUGGLER [RIVAL] The Empire's many restrictions and tariffs make smuggling an extremely lucrative job, if an incredibly dangerous one. Rebel operatives must often hire smugglers to help them circumvent the Empire, using them to acquire weapons and other equipment proscribed by Imperial law or to secure transport to particularly hostile locales. If the PCs need something they cannot purchase for them.selves on Onderon, they might want to contact a smuggler in the hopes of securing the item. SOAKlALUl 1YTHIIESHOLO 2 12 Skills:Charm 2, Cool I, Piloting 3, Ranged (Light) 2, Skul.duggery 2, Streetwise 2, Vigilance 1. BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBE! 1ION Talents: Skilled Jockey 2 (remove up to two Setback dice . from any Piloting check). Abilities: None. Equipment: Blaster pistol (Ranged !Light!; Damage 6; Criti.cal 3; Range [Medium!; Stun setting). MYNOCK (MINION] Shrieking, flapping vermin, mynocks are silicate creatures that have an insatiable hunger for wiring, power coils, and anything else from which they can draw energy. Their lethal allergy to helium keeps them off some planets, but they thrive in the vac.uum and in other environments where this gas is not prevalent. A mynock infestation can spell the doom of a base, whether it is controlled by the Rebellion or the Empire. If the PCs were to discover mynocks within the sub-levels of their base, aboard their ship after returning from a mission, or anywhere else they cared about maintaining, they would need to exterminate these pests before they caused consid.erable damage. (!) S0,1H VM U[ I, T IR[SHOLO 1 4 Skills (group only): Brawl, Coordination. Talents: None. Abilities: Vacuum Dweller (can survive in vacuum without penalty, and can move in a vacuum environment ), Energy Parasite (mynocks can make an Average [. .J Coordina.tion check to latch onto any starship or vehicle they are engaged with. Ships or vehicles with a mynock attached suf.fer 1 system strain per mynock each day and reduce their handling by 1). Flyer (mynocks can fly). Helium Allergy (when exposed to helium. mynocks suffer 1 wound per round, ignoring soak, until their bodies inflate and explode). Equipment: Sucker-mouth and claws (Brawl; Damage 4; Critical 5; Range !Engaged!). MID-SIZED DIANOGA (RIVAL] Dianoga are unpleasant, amphibious creatures that feed on detritus to survive. Their bodies are twisted masses of tenta.cles topped by a single eye, which they use like a periscope while their bodies move beneath the water, unseen. Typi.cally, they are scavengers, but hungry dianoga sometimes target living creatures that wander into their watery do.mains, hoping to get a quick meal out of smaller prey. IllDianoga can be found many places, from lakes to sub.merged ruins to garbage chutes aboard large spacecraft. The PCs might encounter one of these creatures in any of .these locations, if they are unlucky. 9!!!!!!!111 BRAWN 4 2 Skills: Brawl 2, Perception 1, Stealth 4, Survival 2, Vigilance 3. Talents: Adversary 1 (upgrade difficulty of all combat checks against this target once). Abilities: Amphibious (dianoga may breathe underwater without penalty and never suffer movement penalties for traveling through water). Crushing Grip (a dianoga has many tentacles and can maintain a grip with some while attacking with others. When it hits an enemy, a dianoga can spend two AdvantagetJ, to ensnare it in its tentacles. A trapped charac.ter cannot move away from the dianoga, and suffers 2 strain and 1 wound at the start of each of his or her turns while ensnared. The trapped character may make a Hard [...J Athletics check as an action to try to escape the dianoga's grasping limbs; a character who succeeds wrestles free). Equipment: Tentacles (Brawl; Damage 5; Critical 4: Range [Engaged!; Knockdown, Linked 6). IND A Abilitydice ............................................3 ¥actions .................................................. 14 starship and vehicle actions ...........41 Adva11tage..............................................4 interpreting Advantage .............. 8, 15 adversaries ........................................... 44 Agility ..................................................... S armor (equiprnent) ............................. 34 armor (starships and vehicles) .......... 38 Astrogation (skill) ............................... 22 Athletics (skill) .................................... 22 B Boost dice ..............................................3 Brawl (skill) ......................................... 22 B1áawn.....................................................S Challenge dice ....................................... 3 characteristics .......................................5 l ¥ h ¥ ¥app ying c aracter1st1cs....................6 Charm (skill) ....................................... 22 checks.....................................................5 con1bat checks .................................14 con1petitive checks ............................ 9 opposed checks .................................. 9 Coercio11 (skill) ................................... 22 Co1nputers (skill) ................................ 22 Cool (skill) ........................................... 22 Coordinatio11 (skill) ...........................23 critical i11jt1ries ....................................19 Cunning ................................................. 5 currency ............................................... 30 D Deceptio11 (skill) ................................. 23 defense .................................................38 D . . espa11...................................................4 ir1terpreting Despair ..................8, 16 Destiny Poil1ts ..................................... 1O dice .........................................................3 adding dice ......................................... 6 downgrading dice .............................. 7 pools....................................................6 removing dice .................................... 8 syinbols ............................................... 4 t1pgrading...........................................7 Difficulty ................................................ 5 applying .............................................. 6 dice......................................................3 levels .................................................... 7 Difficulty dice ........................................ 3 Discipline (skill) .................................23 E emergency repair patch .....................36 Experience Points ............................... 11 F Failure .................................................... 4 i11terpreting Failure ........................... 8 Force dice ............................................... 3 G gea1,........................................................35 Gunnery (skill) ...................................23 H handling ................................................ 38 healing ...................................................... 20 hull trauma threshold ........................38 I incidentals ...........................................13 . . . .1n1t1at1ve................................................12 Intellect .................................................... 5 K Knowledge (skill) ................................ 23 L Leadership (skill) ................................ 23 M maneuvers........................................... 13 starsl1ip and vehicle ......................... 39 Mecha11ics (skill) ................................. 23 Medicine (skill) ................................... 23 Melee (skill) ......................................... 24 ffiln1 o ns ................................................44 N Negotiation (skill) ............................... 24 11emeses................................................45 p Perception (skill) ................................24 Piloting (skill) ..................................... 24 Presence ................................................. 5 Proficiency dice ..................................... 3 R range bands .........................................16 plar1etary scale ................................. 39 Ranged (Heavy) (skill) ....................... 25 Ranged (Light) (skill) ......................... 25 recovery...............................................20 Resilience (skill) .................................. 25 rivals ..................................................... 45 s Setback dice ........................................... 3 silhouette ............................................. 38 skills ....................................... 5, 6, 11, 21 career................................................21 ranks ................................................. 2.1 tra1n1ng.............................................11 Skulduggery (skill) ............................. 25 soak value ............................................ 16 speed ..................................................... 38 starship and vehicle profiles .............. 43 Stealth (skill) ....................................... 25 stimpack ............................................... 35 .strain ..................................................... 19 recovering from strain ....................20 strain threshold ...................................19 Streetwise (skill) .................................. 25 Success ................................................... 4 interpreting Success .......................... 8 Survival (skill) ..................................... 25 system strai11 threshold ......................38 T talents...................................................26 acquiring talents .............................. 11 ranked talents ..................................26 Threat.....................................................4 interpreting Threat ..................... 8, 16 T1..iumph ................................................. 4 interpreti11g Triumph ................. 8, 15 V Vigilance (skill) ................................... 25 w weapo11s...............................................30 characteristics ..................................3 3 l' ¥qua 1t1es ............................................32 Willpower..............................................s woáunds.................................................19 recovering from wou11ds ................20 wound threshold .................................19 BEGINNER GAME RULEBOOK ACE OF REBELUON SKILL DESCRIPTIONS Sl<ILL  CHARACTERISTIC  Astrogation  Intellect  Brawn  Brawl  Brawn  Presence  Coercion  Willpower  Computers  Intellect  Cool  Presence  Coordination  Agility  Cunning  Willpower  Agility  Knowledge  Intellect  Leadership  Presence  Mechanics  Intellect  Med1c1ne  Intellect  Melee  Brawn  Negot1auon  Presence  Perception  Cunning  Agility  Ranged (Heavy)  Agility  Ranged (Light)  Agility  Brawn  Skulduggery  Cunning  Agility  Streetwise  Cunning  Cunning  Willpower  USED FOR ... Calculating hyperspace routes and navigating the galaxy Climbing, jumping, swimming, and other feats of strength and power. Attacking with bare hands. brass knuckles. or similar weapons. Sweet-talking, appealing to better nature, and convincing someone to like or help you. Threatening and 1ntimidat1on. interrogation. or similar Accessing, using, or bypassing computer systems. Staying calm 1n a tense s1tuat1on, being unruffled, checking 1n1tiative when not surprised Keeping one's balance. slipping free of restraints. landing on one's feet. being nimble. Lying, laying a false trail, distracting an opponent in combat Resisting or overcoming fear. staying on task when distracted or deceived. Attacking with heavy weaponry such as missile launchers or starship weapons. Knowing obscure facts and information of all sorts. Helping allies to overcome fear, swaying a crowd over to your cause, organizing a group Identifying a fault with a machine. repairing a machine, restoring wounds to a Droid. Diagnosing an illness. healing a disease or 1n1ury,restoring wounds to an organic being. Attacking with knives. vibro-axes, and other melee weapons. Striking a deal. getting a better price, securing good terms on a business arrangement. Noticing something hidden or subtle, searching for clues, seeing through a disguise. Steering or flying a vehicle of any type. Attacking with blaster rifles. blaster carbines, and other heavy ranged weapons. Attacking with blaster pistols, heavy blaster pistols, and other light ranged weapons Being tough and stubborn, resisting poison. disease, heat and cold, or other ill effects. P1ck1nglocks, picking pockets, palming small items. 1dent1fying flaws 1n security systems Moving about undetected, hiding from pursuit. Finding black market goods, getting the word on the street, staying safe 1n urban environments. Finding food and shelter in the wild, tracking someone, handling a domesticated animal. Preparing for a cns1s, rema1n1ng alert, checking 1n1tiat1ve when surprised 